It was a glorious morning in early June; the dew still hung heavy on
each grass blade and leaf, making rainbow tapestries that defy
description, as the waking sunbeams stole into the heart of each round
drop and nestled there; the fresh, cool air was sweet with the breath of
a thousand flowers; a beautiful bird chorus filled the earth with
riotous melody as the happy-hearted songsters flitted from tree to tree
saying, "Good morning," to their neighbors. Through a mass of rosy
clouds in the east, the sun struggled up over the hilltop and smiled
down on the sleeping village of Parker as if trying to coax the dreamers
to arise and behold the beauties of the dawning day. In the barn-yards
of the little farms scattered around about the town roosters were
crowing, hens were clucking, cattle lowing, and horses stamping and
neighing, eager for their breakfast.

Old Towzer, from his bed on the porch of the little brown house, almost
bidden by tall maples and wide-spreading elms, stretched and yawned,
perked up his ears, listened intently, then rose stiffly, shook his
heavy coat and leisurely descending the steps, circled around the place
to see whether anyone was yet astir. The door slammed at the green house
on the farm adjoining, from the little red cottage across the fields
came the sound of a busy ax, and down by the creek some early riser
whistled merrily as he went about his morning work. All this old Towzer
heard, and strolling back to his place on the porch, he looked up at the
chamber window above him and barked sharply. The drawn curtain flew up
with a flirt, a small, tousled head appeared behind the screen, and a
childish voice in a loud whisper commanded, "Keep still, you old Towzer!
It isn't time to wake Gail yet. We've got to get those flowers and she
wouldn't let us if she knew."

A second small face joined the first at the window, followed by still
another, all blinking sleepily, but eager with excitement. "Oh, Peace,"
whispered the oldest of the trio, in an awestruck voice, "isn't it a
beau--ti--ful day? I've a notion to call--"

"Don't you dast!" quickly interposed the first speaker. "You know Gail
never'd let us go. Just see how wet everything is!"

"Did it rain?" asked the third child, the youngest of them all,
critically examining the trees and porch-roof, and then lifting her
great, blue eyes to the bluer sky above as if expecting to see her
answer there.

"No, goosie, it's just dew, but it must have been awful heavy. Get your
clothes on, Allee, or Gail will wake before we are started. Aren't you
ready, Cherry?"

"'Most," came the muffled reply from the corner where a struggling
tangle of clothes, hands and feet proclaimed that Cherry was hurrying.

"Then come on; we will have to fly. I'll button your dress when we get
outside, Allee. Never mind your other shoe, Cherry; you can put it on
downstairs. Have you got your basket?" Giving her directions in sharp,
imperative whispers, Peace led the way into the hall, leaped onto the
banisters, boy-fashion, and slid quickly, quietly to the floor below,
where she waited in a fever of impatience for her less daring sisters to
creep backward down the creaking stairs. "Skip that one, it squeaks like
fury--oh, Allee, what a racket! There, I knew you'd do it! Gail's awake.
Sh! Girls!"

They held their breath, huddled close in the darkest corner of the hall,
and waited.

"Peace!" again came the call from above.

A happy inspiration seized the small culprit, and she snored vigorously.
Cherry and Allee clapped both hands over their mouths to stifle their
giggles, but Gail was evidently satisfied, for she did not repeat her
summons; and after another moment of hushed waiting, the half-dressed,
dishevelled trio tiptoed down the hall, cautiously unlocked the kitchen
door and slipped out into the sweet freshness of the early day.

There was a quick scampering of little feet down the walk, a subdued
click of the gate, and the three children, holding hands, raced madly
along the dusty road until a thick hedge of sumac and hazel bushes hid
them from the little brown house. Then Peace slackened her gait
somewhat, but did not cease running, and kept looking behind her as if
still fearing pursuit or discovery.

"Oh, Peace," gasped Allee at last, stumbling blindly over sticks and
stones as her older sisters dragged her along between them, "my dress is
coming off, and my breath is all in chunks. Do we have to run the
_whole_ way?"

Peace looked back at the small, perspiring figure, saw the plump
shoulders from which the unbuttoned dress had slipped, caught a glimpse
of flying shoestrings, rumpled stockings and naked legs, as the little
feet were jerked unceremoniously over humps and hollows of the rough
road-way, and stopped so abruptly that her companions were thrown
headlong into the dust, creating such a commotion that a weary slumberer
on the opposite side of the thicket was rudely startled out of his nap,
thinking some great catastrophe had overtaken him. As he sat up and
rubbed his eyes, looking around him in bewilderment for the cause of his
sudden awakening, he heard an angry voice sputter shrilly, "Well, Peace
Greenfield, I must say--"

"Don't stop to say it now," interrupted another childish voice. "I never
meant to dump you over like that. You shouldn't have been running so
fast. S'posing you had been a train and tumbled into the ditch! Reckon
all your passengers would have got a good jolt. I stopped so's we could
finish dressing. Cherry, where is your other shoe? You have run all the
way down the road with only one on. Just look at your stockings!"

"Where's yours? You haven't any stockings at all," retorted the first
voice, still sharp with indignation.

"In my pocket. I was afraid Gail would hear as 'fore we got gone. There,
Allee, your dress is done. Fasten up your shoes while I put on my
stockings. We'll have to hurry like mischief, 'cause I don't think Gail
will go back to sleep again."

There was a subdued rustling for a moment or two beyond the dense hedge,
and then the listening man heard the sound of hurrying footsteps in the
road, and the children vanished without his having caught a glimpse of
them. But he was now thoroughly awake, and as soon as the steps died
away in the distance, he rose from his bed among the leaves, shook out
his gray blankets, rolled and strapped them into a bundle, threw them
under the overhanging shrubbery, and slowly made way through the trees
to a wide, sparkling creek, whose tumbling waters made sweet music in
the woods.

"What a glorious scene this is," he murmured aloud, gazing in rapt
admiration at the wooded hills, the singing stream, the bright flowers.
"Why can't we be content to live in such places instead of building
great, smoky, sooty cities? You little creek, you sang me to sleep last
night. Wish I could take you back home with me. What a pretty flower!
Little bird, you will split your throat if you try to pour out all your
melody at once. Better give us a little at a time. Of course you are
happy! Who wouldn't be on such a wonderful day? Oh, what sentiments for
a tramp! Campbell, have you forgotten what you are?"

He was near the road now, and suddenly a baby voice piped shrilly, "Yes,
here is the bridge and there is the sun. Oh, just look at the sun! It's
way up high now. Ain't it big and fiery?"

"S'posing it was a frying-pan," spoke up a second voice, which the
startled tramp recognized as belonging to Peace; "and we could have all
the buckwheat cakes it would cook. My! wouldn't that be nice?"

They came slowly into view through the shrubbery,--three queer, dripping
little figures, with hair flying, dresses wet and rumpled, shoes soaked
and muddy, but literally loaded down with masses of late columbine and
sweet wood violets. And they made a pretty picture with their bright,
rosy faces and excited, sparkling eyes.

The tramp, in the shadow of the trees, caught his breath sharply, then
laughed to himself at Peace's supposition and Cherry's horrified
exclamation, "Why, Peace Greenfield, what ever put such a crazy idea
into your head?--supposing the sun was a frying pan?"

"I bet it would make a good one, and I'll bet the cakes would be dandy,
too! Um--m--m! I can smell 'em now. I am starving hungry, and it does
take so long for the girls to cook pancakes in our little frying pan.
Hurry up! It must be breakfast time already. I wish I had wings to fly
home with. S'posing we were birds, we would be there in a jiffy."

"Let's play we were," suggested Allee. "That will make the way seem
shorter."

"All right," the sisters assented; and with their great bouquets
flapping wildly in the wind, the trio sped swiftly out of sight up the
road, leaving the tramp again to his thoughts.

"Pancakes! Makes me hungry, too. Guess I better wash and be moving on in
search of a breakfast. I wonder if those youngsters live near here."

He knelt beside the clear stream and ducked his head again and again in
the cool water, finally drying his face on a clean handkerchief, and
running his fingers through his bushy gray hair in place of a comb. His
toilet done, he set out briskly down road the children had taken,
whistling under his breath, and keeping a careful lookout for
farmhouses on the way.

At the first place he approached, the watchful housewife had loosed a
vicious-looking bulldog, and the tramp wisely passed by without
stopping. The next house was deserted, the door of the third place was
slammed in his face before he could even make known his wants, and he
was beginning to wonder if he must go breakfastless when a shrill,
childish treble rang out clearly on the still morning air:

    "'The Campbells are comin' Oho, Oho,
    The Campbells are comin', Oho, Oho.'"

So sudden was the discordant burst of song, and so close by, that the
tramp stopped in his tracks and stared in the direction of the voice.

"Well, of all things! That announcement quite took my breath away!" he
ejaculated, hurrying forward once more. "The voice sounds like 'S'posing
Peace.' I wonder if it can be she."

It was, indeed. Another rod and he found himself in front of a gate, on
the high post of which was perched a diminutive, bare-legged girl in
a soiled, damp frock, superintending the drying of three pair of
mud-covered shoes arranged in a row on the picket fence, while she
issued orders to the two sisters sitting in the middle of the gravel
walk busily sorting flowers.

"As true as you live, I don't believe these shoes will ever be dry by
school time. S'posing we have to go barefooted, and this the last day of
the term! Cherry, you've got too many columbines in that horn. They look
pinched. Put some in Allee's boat."

"Allee's boat?"

"Well, she is fixing it for Miss Truesdale, even if she ain't a
sure-enough scholar yet. Don't make such little, stingy bunches of
violets. We picked plenty. I can't coax your toes to shine, Cherry. I'm
scared that the blacking won't do any good. You shouldn't have worn your
best ones."

"I haven't any others. My old pair is all worn out, and--Why, who--"

Cherry had caught sight of the shabby figure at the gate, but before she
could finish her sentence, Peace, following the direction of her eyes,
wheeled about on her perch, surveyed the man with big, almost somber,
brown eyes, and poured forth an avalanche of questions: "Are you a
tramp? Do you want some work, or are you just begging? Can you chop
wood? Do you know how to hoe? Are you hungry--"

"Yes, miss, I'm hungry," the tramp managed to stammer. "Could you give
me a bite to eat?"

"Not unless you will work for it," was the firm reply. "We don't b'lieve
in feeding beggars, but we are always glad to help the deserving poor."

The man's shrewd, deep-set eyes twinkled with amusement at her grown-up
tone and manner, but he answered with seeming meekness, "I will be only
too glad to do anything I can for a breakfast--"

"There's wood to be chopped. Gail ain't strong enough to do such work,
and our man is lazy. Reckon we'll let him go as soon as the garden is in
shape. There's a heap of vines to be trained up on strings 'round the
porches, and there are all the flower beds to be weeded, this grass
needs cutting, and the roof of the hen house has to be fixed so's it
won't leak, the hoop has come off the rain-barrel, the back step is
broken, and--oh, yes, there are three screens that we can't get on the
windows, and Mike never finds time for them."

Peace stopped for breath, and the tramp took advantage of the pause to
say, "Which one of those jobs will you have me do?"

"Which one?" echoed the child in round-eyed amazement. "Why, all of
them, of course! You don't expect us to give you breakfast unless you do
something to earn it, do you, after I've told you we never feed
beggars?"

"No, miss. I am willing to work. But you better find out what your ma
wants me to do first, so I can begin."

"Mamma's a ninvalid," Peace responded promptly. "But I will ask Gail.
She will know, and, besides, she is cook here."

She leaped nimbly to the ground and disappeared within doors, where some
sort of an argument evidently waged warm and furious for a time, judging
from the sound of voices heard in the garden. Finally Peace put in
appearance again; not the jaunty, self-reliant young lady who had
interviewed the tramp a few moments before, but a very sober-faced,
dejected-looking child, who twisted her dress into knots with nervous
fingers, and at length stammered in embarrassed tones, "Gail says you
can have some breakfast if you will split a little wood for her first,
but she says it is a nimposition to expect you to do all I said you
should. I don't see why. There's a heap of work around here to be done
and no one but Mike to do it. There! Faith told me not to say anything
about not having any men on the place. Mike is only a boy, you know, and
he doesn't b'long here. We haven't got any--"

"Peace Greenfield!" The voice was sharp with exasperation, and Peace
retired hastily indoors once more, calling back over her shoulder,
"You'll find the ax by the woodpile, if Mike hasn't got it in the
meadow, or it isn't in the shed or the barn. I'll come out and tell you
when to quit. Yes, Faith I _am_ hurrying! Be sure you cut a lot,
'cause--" The voice trailed away into indistinctness, and the tramp,
with a smile on his lips, went to hunt up the missing ax; and soon
sharp, ringing blows told the occupants of the house that he was hard at
work.

Rapidly the huge pile of heavy knots diminished in size, and just as
rapidly the heap of split stove-wood grew, while the perspiration rolled
in great beads down the worker's crimson face. At last he paused a
moment to rest his back and wipe the moisture from his hot forehead, and
as he drew his handkerchief down from his eyes he saw Peace standing
before him, holding a platter in her extended arms while she surveyed
the result of his labor with approving eyes.

"You've done splendid!" she breathed, enthusiastically. "The last tramp
who cut wood for us piled it up so it looked like there was an awful
lot, but after he was gone we found he had heaped it around a big hole
in the middle and there wasn't hardly any split. Faith said she bet you
would do the same way, but I watched you from the window, while Cherry
and me were washing the dishes, and you never tried to hide a hole in
the middle at all. Here is your breakfast. Gail cooked it, else you
wouldn't have got much. It is Faith's turn to get the meals today, but
she is baking a cake for the minister's reception tonight, and is
crosser'n two sticks, so Gail fixed it.

"You see, we were all through breakfast when you got here, or you might
have had more. I don't know, though,--Faith says if she had her way
about it, she'd send every single tramp who comes here marching down the
street with the enemy in pursuit. That means Towzer, but he wouldn't
bite anyone. Faith is cross every time she makes a cake. You might have
eaten in the kitchen if it hadn't been for that. She sends us all
out-doors when she is baking, so's we won't make her cakes fall. She
does make fine things, though! Um! but they are good! Never mind, the
kitchen is hot anyway, but it's nice and cool out here under this maple.
This is my maple. Papa built that bench for me and Allee before he went
to heaven. You can sit on the ground and play the seat was your table,
or you can sit in the seat and hold this platter in your lap. Which'll
you do?"

The tramp smiled broadly, relieved the small maid of her heavy load, and
dropped wearily onto the wide bench, saying gratefully, "This will do
nicely, thank you. What a fine breakfast you have brought me! Gail must
be a good cook. Is she your sister?" As he spoke, he picked up an egg
and carefully broke it on the edge of his plate.

"Yes, Gail's the oldest of us--Oh, Mr. Tramp, just see what you have
done! I was afraid Gail hadn't given you breakfast enough and that you
might get hungry before noon, so when she wasn't looking I put on a
whole lot of extra toast and four eggs and some matches to cook them
with, and you've gone and smashed a _raw_ egg all over everything!"

He stared in dismay at the broken yolk streaming over his creamed
potatoes, and then, seeing the consternation in the big, brown eyes of
his small hostess, he laughed heartily and said, "Never mind, little
girl! I'm hungry enough for even raw eggs this morning. Doctors often
make their patients eat such things. Here goes!"

Peace watched him in silence a moment and then observed, "You don't look
like any tramps we ever had here before. They always shovel in their
food with their knives, but you use your fork. You can work, too. Why
don't you get a job somewhere and earn some money instead of loafing
around begging for your meals?"

The man paused, with his fork half way to his mouth, surprised at the
child's keen observations. Then he answered, lightly, "I do sometimes,
but a feller can't work all the time, can he?"

"Well, most folks have to, though I never could see why they all can't
have vacations like we do at school. This is our last day until next
fall."

"Is that what you and the kids gathered the flowers for?"

"Yes, and for the minister's reception tonight. We went early this
morning 'fore the rest of the folks were up; and mercy, but didn't Faith
scold when we got back! She said we ought all of us to be whipped and
sent to bed. Faith is real ugly when she's making cakes. We did get
awfully wet,--I had no notion it would be so bad. But we got the flowers
anyway. We made some baskets yesterday out of birch bark and moss. Here
comes Allee with them now. She doesn't go to school yet, but sometimes
she visits with Cherry and me, and today is one of the times. Ain't the
baskets pretty?"

"Scrumptious!" was the admiring answer, as the man clumsily lifted one
of the dainty boats filled with dog-tooth violets and drank in its
perfume with the delight of a child. "What wouldn't city people give for
these little nosegays from the woods! They would go like hot cakes."

"What do you mean?" asked mystified Peace, failing to understand what
connection her beloved flowers could have with hot cakes.

"Why, in big cities, at almost any of the important business corners,
you will see little boys and girls selling sweet peas and daisies
and--yes, they sometimes sell cowslips and wood violets, but only in
bunches--never in such cunning little baskets. Why, tucked down in that
damp moss, your flowers will keep fresh for hours; while a bunch from a
city flower-seller's stock withers as soon as it is taken out of water."

"Would folks in Martindale buy them?"

"Yes, indeed! They are a breath from the woods, and lots of people would
be glad to get them. You see--"

"Peace Greenfield, it's time to start! Do you want to be late the last
day of school?"

"That's Cherry. I must go. I wish I could stop and talk some more. When
you finish your breakfast, just take the dishes around to the kitchen
steps, and--if you have time and want to do it--you might weed those
flower gardens in the front yard and the onion patch behind the shed. If
you don't, I'll have to, and you 'member I gave you some extra lunch
that you wouldn't have got if it hadn't been for me--and a few matches.
Promise you won't light a fire till you get a long way from our house,
will you? Gail won't give tramps matches for fear they will set the
buildings on fire. And say, the lawn-mower is right beside the front
porch, if you should happen to want to cut the grass--just the little
piece fenced in, you know. The rest is for hay. And the ball of twine
for stringing up Hope's vines is stuck in the hole of the porch railing
nearest the door--you can find it easy enough. The rain barrel is behind
the house, and--yes, yes, Cherry, I am coming this very minute! I hope
you have liked your nice breakfast, and will come some other time and
split more wood for us. Good-bye, Mr. Tramp, I've _got_ to go."




CHAPTER II

THE MINISTER'S RECEPTION


"Are you ready, Cherry?"

"Almost," came the muffled reply from the stiffly-starched little figure
sitting on the floor struggling with a broken shoe-string. "Why, Peace,
where are _you_ going?"

"Where do you s'pose? To the reception, of course," answered that young
lady, who had just entered the room, rigged out in an ancient, faded
pink gown which had once been pretty, but was long since outgrown so
that several inches of petticoat hung in display the whole way around
the skirt, and the ruffs on the sleeves reached almost to the elbow. How
she had ever squeezed herself inside the small garment was beyond
comprehension, but there she stood, buttoned up and breathless, ready
for the evening's social event.

"Did Faith say you could go, and where in creation did you find that
ridiculous old dress?" demanded Cherry, after an astonished survey of
the grotesque figure in the doorway.

"Faith doesn't have anything to say about it," was the emphatic retort,
as the brown eyes snapped indignantly at her sister's criticism. "Didn't
mother promise I could go to the next reception that the church had,
and ain't this the next? Faith kept me home from Mr. Kane's farewell,
but she can't make me stay away tonight."

"Gail isn't going--" began Cherry, scenting the storm which was sure to
follow this declaration from her younger sister; but Peace interrupted,
"I am going just the same. Mother said I could!"

"Have you asked her about it today?"

"No, I haven't. She promised a long time ago, but it was a sure enough
promise, and she always keeps her promises."

"But--"

"There ain't any 'but' about it. I'm going even if I have to walk all by
myself. I'm 'most as big as you. Two years ain't much difference! Faith
never kicks about your going, but she always tries to make me stay at
home. She won't this time, though." The shapely little head shook so
vigorously that each tight ring of short, brown hair bobbed
emphatically.

"But you _can't_ go in that dress," remonstrated Cherry, still staring
at the abbreviated gown and neglecting her own preparations. "It is
hardly big enough for Allee any more. You've had that for three or four
years."

"It's the only thing I could find. My white one is _all_ worn out, and
that ugly green gingham has a long tear on the side which Gail hasn't
mended yet."

"But what will Faith say when she sees that rig? Why, Peace, it looks
awful!"

"I should say it did!" exclaimed a second voice from the hallway, and
Faith, a tall, brown-eyed girl of about fifteen years, entered the door.
"What in the world do you think you are doing, Peace Greenfield?"

Peace blinked her somber eyes vigorously, for tears were very near the
surface, but she swallowed back the lump in her throat and calmly
answered, "I'm getting ready for the reception, same as you."

"Indeed you're not! Gail isn't going, and you can stay right here at
home with her and Allee."

"That's what I did the last time, but you don't play that trick on me
tonight. Mother said I could go to the next reception, and I am going."

"She didn't mean this kind of a reception, and you can't go."

"I will, I will! Oh, you are the crossest sister!" cried poor Peace,
with tears of vexation streaming down over her cheeks. "You _always_
spoil my good times! You _never_ make Cherry stay at home--"

"She is older--"

"Two years ain't much!"

"She knows how to behave herself."

"So do I! I'll be as good as gold--"

"I've taken you on that promise before."

"Oh, Oh, Oh! I will go! I'm going straight to mother and ask her now."

"Mother is worse tonight and can't be bothered. Stop your yelling, or
she will hear you."

"I want her to hear! I shall go! She said I might!" The storm was on in
all its fury.

"Hush!" interposed Cherry, running to her sobbing sister and trying to
soothe her wild rebellion with gentle caresses. "I will stay home with
you, Peace. I don't care much about going, anyway."

"You can stay at home if you want to," declared the small rebel with
emphasis, "but _I_ am going!"

"Children, children, what is all this racket about?" asked a gentle,
grieved voice, suddenly, and the shamed-faced trio wheeled to find the
pale, little, invalid mother standing in their midst.

"Oh, mother, mayn't I go? Faith says I can't, but you promised me when
Mr. Kane went away that I could go to the next reception if I would make
no more fuss about not going to his."

"So I did, dear--"

"But a reception for a new minister is no place for such little girls,
mother," broke in Faith, petulantly.

"The 'nouncements said to bring the _babies_"--involuntarily the mother
smiled and the other sisters giggled. "I am lots bigger than a baby--"

"You don't act it--"

"Faith!" The mother's face was as reproving as her voice, and the older
girl's cheeks flushed crimson as she murmured humbly, "I am sorry,
mother; but really, she does say such awful things. She is always
talking. And just look at that dress!"

"I thought it would be pretty--" began Peace, but at that moment she
caught sight of her reflection in the mirror, and stopped so abruptly,
with such a comical look of dismay and despair in her eyes, that the
whole group burst out laughing. Peace joined in their merriment, and
then soberly said, "I look like a chicken when the down is turning to
feathers. What can I do about it? I _can't_ stay at home!"

"Where is your green dress?"

"Gail hasn't mended it yet."

Faith saw her opportunity and immediately compromised. "Peace, if I mend
your dress for you so you can go, will you sit perfectly still all the
evening and never say a word until you are spoken to?"

"Yes, oh, yes, I'll promise!"

The mother opened her lips to speak, but thought better of it, and with
a smile in her eyes, withdrew, leaving the children to their final
preparations.

At length the torn dress was neatly mended and buttoned on the wriggling
owner, the bright curls were given a second brushing and tied back with
a band of pink ribbon from Faith's own treasures, and the sisters were
on their way to the mother's room for a good-bye kiss when a fourth
girl, looking very sweet in a fresh, blue gingham, rushed excitedly up
the stairs and demanded, "Where did you say you put the cake, Faith?
Gail can't find it."

"Why, it's on the wash-bench under the pantry window, covered up with
the big dishpan."

"There is nothing under the dishpan but an empty plate."

"Hope! You are fooling!"

"Cross my heart and hope to die," was the solemn answer. "Gail looked
and I looked. She says somebody must have stolen it."

"The tramp!" cried Faith and Cherry in one voice.

"Bet he didn't!" declared Peace, who had stood open-mouthed and silent
during Hope's recital. "I gave him a great big lunch and--and some
matches to make some more with--"

"Yes," said Faith, bitterly grieved over the loss of the cake, "and kept
him hanging around here all the morning, till we thought he never was
going. I suppose he took the cake for his dinner."

"I don't believe it! But he did weed those flower beds beau--ti--fully!"
cried Peace, championing his cause. "And he strung Hope's vines just as
even! And the lawn is all mowed, and there ain't a sprill of grass left
in the onion patch, and the rain barrel is fixed up and the back step is
mended, and--did he stop up the leaks in the hen house? I told him just
where they were."

"Perhaps you told him to pay for his breakfast, too," suggested the
older girl, sarcastically. "We found a half dollar under his cup after
he was gone."

"A sure-enough half dollar?" asked Peace, too astonished to believe her
ears.

"Yes, a sure-enough half dollar!"

"Where is it? I want to see it for myself."

"On the pantry shelf. Gail thought he might have left it there by
mistake and would come back after it. But I don't."

"Maybe he left it to pay for taking the cake," suggested Allee, who had
joined the excited group in the hall.

"He never took the cake," Peace asserted stoutly. "But I don't think he
will ever come back for his money, either. He wouldn't have left it in
the dishes if he hadn't meant it for us. His clothes had pockets in
them, same as any other man's, and if he had any money, he would have
kept it there and not carried it around in his hands. Wish he would come
back, though. I'd ask him about the cake, just to show you he never took
it."

"See here, Peace Greenfield," cried Faith, with sudden suspicion, "do
you know where that cake is?"

"No, I don't! How should I know? But I don't believe that tramp took it.
So there!"

"I don't believe he was even a tramp. Suppose he was a bad man, who had
done something terrible, and the police were after him--"

"Yes, or s'pose he was a prince," Peace broke in, remembering her
conversation with the gray, old man. "He might be one for all we know,
but he didn't look like a bad man."

"Suppose we stop supposing," laughed Hope, "and all hunt for the cake.
Someone may have hid it just for fun. We've half an hour before we
really must go to the church."

"I don't care to go at all if that cake is gone," declared Faith,
crossly. "Mrs. Wardlaw will begin to think I am lying to get out of
helping with refreshments if I have to make excuses again tonight."

"But you're on the program," protested the smaller girls.

"I guess maybe we will find it somewhere," said Hope. "Come on and
help." And they scattered in their search for the missing loaf.

But, though they looked high and low, indoors and out, not a trace could
they find of it, except the clean, empty plate under the dishpan; and in
despair Peace climbed to her gatepost to ponder the question of whether
tramp and cake had disappeared together or whether some local agent was
the cause of its vanishing. "If it had been a nanimal," she said,
thoughtfully, "it would have knocked the dishpan off the bench and
broken the plate. It must have been a person. I'd think it was Hec
Abbott, only--mercy! What in the world is this? Money! Sure as I'm
alive!" Scrambling down from her perch, she raced for the house,
shouting, "Gail, Faith, look what I've found, hitched to the gatepost!"

The five sisters ran to meet her, and into Gail's hand she thrust a
crumpled, green scrap.

"Ten dollars!" gasped the astonished girl, examining the dingy bill with
excited curiosity. "Someone must have lost it--"

"And pinned it to the gatepost so's we could find it?" demanded Peace.
"Well, I guess not! Bet that tramp left it. He surely must be a prince.
What shall you do with it, Gail?"

"Show it to mother and ask her advice," promptly answered the oldest
girl, smiling down at the excited group of sisters; and they hurried
away to the house with the precious find--all but Peace.

A wild, daring thought had suddenly sprung into her active brain, and as
her sisters vanished within doors, she flew madly up the road through
the summer twilight towards the little village, clasping a shining half
dollar tightly in her fist. In a surprisingly short time she returned,
breathless but triumphant, bearing a huge paper sack in her arms, just
as an anxious group came around the corner of the house.

"Peace! Where have you been?" cried Gail in relief, as the panting form
flew in at the gate.

"We've been hunting all over the farm for you," added Faith, severely.

"Thought you might be searching for some more money," laughed Hope.

"What's in that big bag?" demanded Cherry.

"Cakes!" gasped Peace, proudly. "Faith said Mrs. Waddler would be nasty
if we didn't take something to eat this time, so I spent the tramp's
half dollar for some of those marshmallow cakes with nuts on top. They
are dandy good, and they cost a lot, but they weigh light, so you get a
big bag full for fifty cents. Not many people have money enough to buy
them very often, and Mrs. Waddler can't say a word about our bringing
them instead of a cake. Have one, Gail and Allee, 'cause you aren't
going to the reception. And take one up to mother. Maybe she'd like
them, too."

"But, Peace," Faith began, sharply, then stopped at a warning glance
from Gail, and with sudden gentleness she took the bulky sack from the
small sister's arms and started off for the church where the reception
was to be held.

They were somewhat late in arriving, and the little building was already
well filled with a laughing, light-hearted crowd, gathered to welcome
the new minister into their midst. Glancing hastily about her, Faith saw
one empty chair in a dim corner, and pointing it out to Peace, she said,
"Sit down over there, and remember not to talk except when you are
spoken to. Above everything else, don't get to romping. Hope and Cherry
are to help Miss Dunbar pass the cake, so they are needed in the
kitchen. Remember, now!"

"Yes, I will," was the unusually meek reply, and Peace obediently curled
herself up in the corner to watch proceedings, thankful to be one of the
gay company, but wistfully wishing that she might join in the
merrymaking. It wasn't so bad when the program hour came, for everyone
sat down then and listened quietly to the music and speeches, but it was
very lonely in the dim recess, where Peace was almost hidden from sight,
and she longed to have someone to talk to. Everyone was so busy
introducing themselves to the young minister and his pretty, sprightly
little wife, or gossiping among themselves, that no one paid any
attention to the somber, brown eyes peering so eagerly from the corner.

"Oh, dear," sighed Peace at length, "I might as well have stayed at home
like Faith said, for not a single soul has said a word to me since I
came in, and I don't s'pose I will even get a chance to speak to the new
minister. My, but he's got an awfully pretty wife! Wish she would smile
at me like that. There come the 'freshments. Like as not they'll skip
me, off here by myself. If Cherry forgets, I'll shake her good when I
get home. A piece of cake is dry eating when all the rest have lemonade,
but I'd rather have that than nothing. There, that man is going to play
again--Faith is pulling out the stops of the organ. Doesn't he look
funny?"

She laughed aloud at a sudden ludicrous fancy, and her laugh was echoed
so close beside her that she nearly jumped out of her chair. Recovering
herself, she whirled around to find the strong-faced young pastor
looking down at her.

"What do you find so funny to laugh at, hid away here in this dark
corner?" he asked, in a cheery, hearty voice, as he drew up an old stool
and sat down beside her.

And, forgetting her fright in the friendly glance and tone of this new
preacher, Peace giggled out, "I was just thinking s'posing we were all
grasshoppers, how funny we'd look hopping around here instead of
walking. We'd have to shake feet instead of hands, and if we wanted to
go across the room all we'd have to do would be to take a big jump."

For a fraction of a second the minister was dumb with amazement at the
unexpected answer; then he threw back his head and laughed uproariously,
as he gasped, "What ever put such a thought in that little noddle?"

"That man with the big fiddle," was the prompt reply. "Doesn't he look
like a grasshopper with that long-tailed coat and all that shirt front?
If he just had feelers on his head, he'd be perfect. Don't you think
so?"

Again the young man laughed, for Peace's picture was not overdrawn--the
tall, angular cellist in evening dress certainly did resemble a
grasshopper. But, of course, it would never do for him to say so, and he
sought to turn this unusual conversation by inquiring, "Aren't you one
of the Greenfield girls? You look amazingly like two or three who have
been introduced to me this evening. Isn't the organist a sister of
yours?"

"Yes, that's Faith."

"And the blue-eyed one just coming in the door?"

"That's Hope."

"And there is a third one here somewhere, is there not?"

"Yes, Cherry. Her real name is Charity, but that is such a long name for
a little girl that we call her Cherry."

He smiled at the diminutive maiden with her grown-up air, and said
musingly, "Faith, Hope and Charity. Then you must be Mercy."

"Oh, mercy, no!" was the horrified exclamation. "That would be worse
than ever! I am Peace. Faith says I ought to have been called 'War and
Tribulation'--it would have been more 'propriate; but I am not to blame
for my name, if it doesn't fit. I would have been something else if I'd
had my way about it. Unless babies are named pretty names I think their
folks ought to wait until they can pick out their own names. Grandpa
named me--all of us but Gail and Allee. If I just hadn't been born for
two weeks longer maybe I'd have had a pretty name, too, for grandpa died
when I was only thirteen days old. You see, grandpa was a minister--papa
used to be a minister, too--and he never had any other children but
papa, so he didn't get a chance to do much naming in his own family.
Papa named Gail; her real name is Abigail. And then grandpa came to live
with us. He liked Bible names, so the rest of us were picked out of the
Bible--except Allee, and she wasn't born then. Mamma named her."

She paused for breath, and the amused, amazed preacher found opportunity
to murmur, politely, "But I am sure you all have good names--"

"Oh, yes, they are good enough! The trouble is, they don't fit, except
Hope's. She is our sunbeam, always doing and saying something pretty,
and _meaning_ it, too. Now, Gail isn't a gale at all, but just the
bestest kind of a sister; while Faith is usu'lly cross as two sticks
unless things go just as she wants them; and Cherry doesn't stand around
on corners d'livering _tracks_ and worn-out clo's to the needy poor,
like Charity always does in the pictures. But mine is the worst misfit.
Still, I'm thankful it isn't any worse. Just s'posing I had Irene for a
middle name--that's my favorite, and Olive is Hope's choice--then my
'nitials would have spelled P. I. G. and hers H. O. G.; and the school
children would never have called us anything else. I know, 'cause they
call Nort Thomas Nettie. His whole name is Norton Edwin Thomas, but he
always signed his 'nitials on his 'rithmetic papers, and the boys took
to calling him Nettie. It makes it all the worse 'cause he is a regular
sissy boy. Have you got any children?"

"No."

"Well, I s'pose you will have some day, and if I was you, I'd name them
something pretty, or else wait till they got big enough to choose for
themselves. And whatever you do, don't let your church people raise
'em."

"Wh--at?"

"That's just what they'll _try_ to do. They did with our family, and
when they got us all spoiled, they said we were the worst children in
town--that ministers' children always were. Why, Mrs. Waddler--her name
is Wardlaw, but she is so big and fat that I call her Waddler--that's
her over there feeding cake to that scrap of a man--he's her
husband--well, she told Mrs. Grinnell once that I was possessed of seven
devils. I asked mother what that meant, and she was dreadfully mad. It
takes a lot to make mother mad, too. When we first moved here to Parker,
Mrs. Wardlaw thought I was the cutest little girl she had ever seen--she
told me so lots of times--but she doesn't any more. Now she says I am a
hoy-ena--no, that isn't the word. It means tomboy, anyway. That is what
Mr. Hardman calls me, too. He's the _imbecile_ who lives on the farm
next to our place."

"The wh--at?"

"Well, he is! He says so himself. He doesn't b'long to any church, and
hardly ever goes, and he says r'ligion is all tommyrot."

"Oh, you mean infidel," suggested the pastor, trying hard not to laugh
again.

"Maybe. His name is really Hartman. I nicknamed him 'cause he won't let
us have the hazelnuts in his pasture, and he stole my pet
chicken,--leastwise, he let it stay in his flock so now I can't coax it
back; and he chased us out of his apple trees one day when we were just
climbing after one pretty red one way up high out of reach. We did knock
off quite a few, but we never meant to carry them off with us. He
doesn't like girls, and says if he had a family of six like us, he'd--"

"Are you six girls all there are?"

"Isn't that enough? Seems to me it's a pretty big family. When I was
little, Cherry and me used to pray that the angels would never bring any
more babies to our family, 'cause the pieces of pie were getting awfully
little, and, of course, they got littler every time there was another
baby. But they brought us Allee anyway. That was just after mother's
onliest uncle died and left her some money, and she made papa take it
and buy our farm and bring us out here to live after he had been sick a
long, long time with _tryfoid_ fever, and had lost all his pretty
hair."

"Didn't you say your papa was a minister?"

"I said he used to be."

"What is he now?"

"An angel."

"Oh!"

"You see, papa went right on acting like a preacher even after the bad
people in Pendennis made him sick; and when Old Skinflint--I mean Mr.
Skinner--most folks call him deacon, but I guess it's just 'cause he is
so different from a truly deacon, and is always blaming the Lord for
everything that happens--well, when he got cold and had pneumonia, papa
helped take care of him. The deacon is so ugly that hardly anyone else
would have anything to do with him; and one rainy night papa was soaked
going up to Skinner's house, and he had to sit up 'most of the night in
a cold room, 'cause the deacon wouldn't have anyone in his room where
the fire was. So papa caught cold, too, and he never got well. The
angels came and carried him away."

"Oh!"

"Yes, and I heard Mrs. Abbott tell a lady one day that she thought
mother would soon be an angel, too. Do you s'pose she will?" The big,
brown eyes had suddenly grown wide with fear, and Peace piteously
searched the strong face above her for some comforting assurance.

Just a moment he hesitated, and then answered, tenderly, "We shall all
be angels some day if we are good."

"Oh, mamma is good as gold! But two sure-enough angels in one family is
too many, 'specially when it's the mother and father. Don't you think
so?"

Poor man! What could he say? But at that moment came a timely
interruption in the shape of Miss Dunbar with a huge platter loaded with
glasses of lemonade; and as she spied the two figures in the little
recess, she exclaimed, "Why, Mr. Strong, we've been hunting all over the
building for you. What an effective screen those brakes and columbines
make! None of us thought of finding you here. Peace, you are very quiet
this evening. Would you like some lemonade? Have you had refreshments,
Mr. Strong? The committee is looking for you to make arrangements for
Sunday's meetings."

"I will be there in a moment, Miss Dunbar. Good-night, little Peace, I
see your sisters beckoning to you. When the parsonage is ship-shape I
want you to come and see us. Will you?"

"You bet!" was the prompt and emphatic reply, as Peace skipped happily
away to join her sisters, forgetting, in her gladness, that neither Hope
nor Charity had brought her any cake to eat with her lemonade.




CHAPTER III

SHOES AND STRAWBERRIES


"Cherry! Cherry Greenfield!" called Peace, imperatively, flapping a
newspaper vigorously, as if to add emphasis to her summons.

"Here," drawled a lazy voice from the great elm by the road. "What do
you want? I am busy."

"You are reading, that's what!" exclaimed her sister in disgust, as she
came within sight of the slender, brown legs swinging among the
thickly-leaved branches. "Shut up that book and listen to me. I've got
some portentious"--she meant important--"news. Cameron's Shoe Store
advertises shoes at forty-nine cents. That means a pair, doesn't it?
They wouldn't sell them separately, would they,--'cepting to one-legged
people? And the sale lasts the whole week."

"Well, what of it?" asked Cherry, impatiently opening her book once
more; but Peace had scrambled up into the leafy retreat by this time,
and she thrust a ragged newspaper page into her sister's hands, crying,
"What of it? Why, Charity Greenfield, you were saying just this morning
that you'd have to have some new shoes pretty quick or go barefooted on
Sundays. How would you like that? And mine are 'most worn out, too."

"Well, I can't help it if we must have shoes. Gail says there won't be
any extra money this month. It took all she had to pay up Mike, so she
could let him go. Besides, this paper says they are canvas shoes. Those
wouldn't last us any time. Faith says we ought to have cow-hide--"

"Yes, that sounds just like her. She is always saying something cross.
She ought to be thankful that we don't wear our shoes out any faster.
S'posing we didn't have any summer so we could go barefooted, or
s'posing we had as many legs as a spider, and had to buy a dozen pair of
shoes each time. I guess _that_ would take money! Aren't canvas shoes
the things Nellie Banker had? Hers wore an awfully long time and she put
them on every day, too."

"Well, I don't see how that helps us any if we haven't got the money.
Cameron's Shoe Store is in Martindale, too. Where did you get this
paper?"

"I've been helping Mrs. Grinnell shell peas, and she dumped the pods
onto this scrap. When I saw 'shoes forty-nine cents,' I asked her if it
meant sure-enough shoes for that little, and she said it did, and that
any time we wanted to get things in town at a sale when she was going
in, we could drive along with her."

"But the money--"

"Can't we earn it? I heard Mr. Hardman tell the butcher that he needed
someone to help pick his late strawberries, and he'll pay five cents a
quart. We've often picked strawberries, and it isn't very hard
work--just hot and mon-mon--I can't think of the rest of that word."

"It's just as well," answered Cherry, with unconscious sarcasm. "'Twas
likely wrong anyway. Do you mean to say you would pick berries for Mr.
Hartman, when you hate him so?"

"Why not--if he will have us? His money is just as good as any other
man's, ain't it? Only he's mighty stingy."

"That's just it! I don't believe you heard him right. He'll never pay
five cents a quart for picking berries, Peace. Now, if it was Judge
Abbott or Mrs. Grinnell--Why, strawberries are cheap!"

"Not now, when they are 'most gone. And, besides, he told the butcher
that one of the big hotels in Martindale pays him twenty cents a quart
for all he will bring them. It's a special kind, you see, splendid big
ones, that only rich folks can 'ford to eat."

Cherry swung her feet thoughtfully as she read the alluring
advertisement once more, and pondered the question of such importance to
both little girls, but she ventured no reply.

"Well?" said Peace, sharply, after some moments of impatient silence.

"It's awfully hot to pick berries in the sun all day," yawned Cherry,
fingering her book longingly.

Peace snorted in disgust, and seizing the precious paper from her
sister's lap, she swung nimbly to the ground and started off across the
meadow on the other side of the fence.

"Wait, Peace! Where are you going?" cried Cherry, scrambling off her
perch, thoroughly awake now.

"To pick me a pair of shoes in Mr. Hardman's strawberry patch," answered
Peace, quickening her pace.

"Oh, don't hurry so fast. I'll go, too. But s'posing he won't let us
pick berries for him?"

"I ain't s'posing any such thing. We've picked strawberries before. Why,
Allee knows how. Anyone with sense can do a thing like that!"

"Is--are you going to take Allee along if he should give us the job?"

"No, her shoes will last a long time yet. She doesn't need any new
ones."

By this time they had reached the long, low, green house on the farm
adjoining theirs, and almost bumped into Mr. Hartman himself, as they
dashed breathlessly around the corner in search of him.

"Highty, tighty!" ejaculated the startled man, leaping aside to avoid a
collision. "What are you young rapscallions doing over here? You better
make tracks for home."

"Ramscallion yourself," Peace burst out hotly, nursing a stubbed toe and
winking rapidly to keep the tears back. "We've come to pick your
strawberries."

"You have, eh? Well now, what if I won't let you?"

"Then we'll go home. Come, Cherry!" Grabbing her sister's hand, she
marched angrily toward the road, but he called after her, "What will you
pick berries for?"

"Five cents a quart," she replied briefly, not looking around or
slackening her gait in the least.

He chuckled. "Huh! Your price is pretty steep."

"'Pends upon how you look at it," she flung back at him. "You pay that
to other folks, and we can pick as good as anyone. Mrs. Grinnell
always--"

"Mrs. Grinnell's berries are only scrubs."

"Scrubs have to be picked carefully so's not to squash them."

He laughed outright, and Peace marched on with head high and cheeks
aflame with anger.

Before she had reached the road, however, he stopped her by saying,
"What do you want to pick berries for this hot weather?"

"For money. We want some shoes. Cameron's are selling canvas shoes for
forty-nine cents a pair all this week, and Mrs. Grinnell is going in
town Saturday, and we could drive with her--s'posing we could earn
enough for the shoes."

"Why don't your ma buy some?"

"Mother's sick and Gail hasn't any money."

"You've got a pretty little farm there--"

"We can't wear farms on our feet," snapped Peace, moving off once more,
but again he stopped them, for he was really in need of pickers in order
to harvest his big crop of berries before they spoiled on the vines.
"Well, now, I'll tell you, kids, I will try you at picking, and--"

"Pay us five cents a box?"

"Yes, if you are good at the job. Come tomorrow morning."

"We'll begin now. This is Thursday, and that sale lasts only till
Saturday. It might rain tomorrow, and 'sides, it _might_ take us more'n
a day."

"Well, suit yourselves," chuckled the man. "But be sure you do good work
and don't eat up the berries."

So the two small sisters were soon busily engaged in picking the
luscious red fruit and packing it in quart boxes, while the sun poured
mercilessly down upon them. But they pluckily stuck to their post until
the day was done, trying to forget the heat and dust in planning their
trip to the big city, which they had visited so seldom. However, two
long, thankful sighs escaped their dry lips when at length Gail's horn
tooted out the summons to the evening meal, and they hurried homeward as
fast as their aching backs and tired feet would carry them, exultant
though perspiring.

"Gracious!" murmured Cherry plaintively, as she bathed her hot face at
the pump, "I never knew before how many berries it took to make a
quart."

"It would take lots more if we were picking wild strawberries. They
ain't bigger'n peas, but these are whoppers."

"And covered thick with spiders--ugh! I feel them crawling all over me
now. I believe I killed a million just this afternoon."

Peace laughed. They didn't bother her. "Just s'posing those strawberries
were bugs really, and when the hotel people ate them the bugs would
bite. My, wouldn't you like to hear them holler?"

"Why, Peace Greenfield!" cried Cherry in a shocked voice.

"Well, Hope was reading yesterday about some place where snakes coil up
and look just like springs of water, and when thirsty people bend over
to drink, the snakes bite them. There _might_ be bugs somewhere that
looked like strawberries so folks would try to eat them. Course I
wouldn't want them to hurt the people bad--just enough to make them jump
good."

"I would rather have strawberries look like pennies--"

"I'd rather have them _be_ pennies. Just think, if we could pick money
off from strawberry vines! Everyone would start to raising strawberries,
wouldn't they? And how rich we would be! Never mind, we picked ten
boxes of berries this afternoon--that means a shoe apiece. We surely
ought to get that many more by noon tomorrow. Let's begin early so's to
pick as many as we can before it gets hot."

So the morrow found them early in the field again, and by noon the
second ten boxes were filled to the brim.

"There!" breathed Cherry in relief, mopping her crimson face on her
sleeve as she surveyed the fruit of their labor. "We are done. Now we
can get our shoes all right tomorrow. Why, what are you doing, Peace?
Are you crazy?" For Peace had snatched up some empty boxes from another
crate and was making her way between the green rows again.

"Nope," answered the perspiring little maid. "I am just going to pick
some more."

"Well, I'm not!" was the emphatic reply, as Cherry started after the
dusty figure plodding down the field. "I am nearly cooked now, and
hungry as a bear. Come on home! We have picked enough to pay for our
shoes, goosie. Or do you want two pair?"

Peace lifted her somber eyes from her self-appointed task and said
briefly, "Yep--for Allee."

"For Allee?" echoed astonished Cherry. "You told me yourself that she
didn't need any new shoes."

"Well, I didn't think she did, but last night I 'xamined her only pair
and they look awfully scrubby. There isn't any more blacking in the
house, and the ink I sopped onto them made them worse than ever.
Besides, I--it would look mean to get us some shoes and not any for
her."

Without another word, Cherry gathered up an armful of empty boxes and
dropped down by a new row of vines, picking silently, ploddingly until
at last the third ten had been filled. Then she spoke, "Is this all, or
are you going to earn shoes for Hope and Faith and Gail? Because the
afternoon is pretty well gone and--"

"Three pair of shoes is all I am going to pick," interrupted Peace
somewhat sharply, for she was hot and tired, and Cherry's tone seemed to
imply criticism. "Help me tote these crates up to the house now and
we'll get our pay."

Mr. Hartman met them as they tugged the second crate, only half filled,
up to the berry shed, and the spirit of mischief suddenly took
possession of the usually stern, business-like farmer.

"So you have picked all you want to, have you? Well, I am surprised to
think you would give up so soon. Here, hand me that box! I want to see
what kind of pickers you are." He hoisted the two crates to the corner
of the fence surrounding one of his brooding pens, and pretended to
examine each box critically, while the girls waited in anxious silence
for his word of approval. "Hm!" he said at last, trying to frown, and
succeeding so well that both little faces paled with misgiving. "Just as
I expected! You don't know how to pick strawberries. You don't deserve a
cent of pay. How much were you to get? Five cents a box?"

"Yes, sir," whispered Peace, with lips so dry they could hardly form the
words.

"Well, I oughtn't to give you a penny, but I will be generous and live
up to my part of the bargain. Five cents a box, was it? And there are
two boxes and a half of fruit."

His eyes were twinkling, but this Peace failed to notice, and she cried
indignantly, "There are _thirty_ boxes! We picked ten last night and
twenty today."

"Oh, those little boxes! Five cents a big box, I meant. That would be
ten cents and half a nickel over; but I will be good and give you
fifteen cents for your work." He drew three battered coins from his
pocket and dropped them into Peace's damp, dirty hand.

She drew in her breath sharply, stared at the money for a moment in dumb
amazement, then let it fly with all her might straight at Mr. Hartman's
head, screaming in a frenzy of anger and disappointment, "You
numscullion of a cheat! Do you s'pose you will ever get to heaven? There
are your old berries! You can hire your chickens to pick them up! I'll
never work for you again!" One shove of the crates, and the beautiful,
tempting fruit lay in a scattered heap inside the chicken yard! And
Peace, blinded by the hot tears of rage, was flying for home with
dismayed Cherry close at her heels.

It was Mr. Hartman's turn to stare, and stare he did, first at the
spoiled fruit and then at the flying girls, too stunned to understand.
The hot blood mounted to his forehead, he shook his fist in unreasoning
anger and yelled, "Drat your pesky hides! Come back here and I'll tan
you good! What do you mean by spoiling all that high-priced fruit? Oh,
if I just had my hands on you now!"

"You got only what you deserved, Dave Hartman," said a quiet voice
behind him, and he whirled angrily toward his wife, who had come upon
the scene unnoticed.

"All I deserved! Twenty quarts of fruit spoiled! Four dollars' worth,
Myra Ann!"

"You should have been fair to the children and it never would have
happened. They have worked hard and earned their money."

"Fair! I meant to be fair. I was just fooling with them. If she hadn't
been quicker'n greased lightning she would have got all that was coming
to her."

"How was she to know that? You looked so ferocious I don't wonder she
took you at your word. The best thing you can do now is to rescue that
fruit before the chickens have spoiled it entirely, and let me wash and
can it. Then you better go over and pay the children for their work."

"Pay the children a dollar and a half for spoiling four dollars' worth
of strawberries? Well, I should say not! They will never get another
cent out of me, no matter if they go barefooted all the rest of their
days."




CHAPTER IV

LITTLE FLOWER GIRLS


In the hot room, high up under the eaves of the little brown house,
Peace sobbed out her anguish of soul, and then faced the problem of
shoes with a dauntless spirit.

"We'll _have_ to have new ones when school begins again, and if we could
just get some of these canvas things to wear during the summer, our old
ones would last quite a while longer. Mercy, where does the money go?
Seems as if there never was any to buy things we need with. Wish my
tramp would come back and leave us another bill. Wish--why didn't I
think of that before? The woods are full of flowers yet. I'll get Hope
and Cherry to help me make a lot of birch bark baskets and then Allee
and me will sell them in the city. My tramp said lots of folks would buy
them if they got a chance. Oh, Cherry, let's go down to the creek and
get some more bark. Tomorrow's Sunshine Club day and we will take Miss
Dunbar some baskets for her flowers."

Glad to distract Peace's thoughts from her great woe, Cherry agreed, and
the two made a hurried trip to the woods for material, getting not only
a big armful of bark, but also quite a bunch of moccasin flowers and
tiger lilies, which they had chanced upon in an unexpected nook.

"These will be lovely for tomorrow, and ought to sell better than the
violets would, 'cause they aren't so common," said Peace, as she looked
lovingly down at the mass of red, gold and pink.

"Ought to what?" asked Cherry.

"Oh, dear, what have I said?" thought Peace in dismay; but quickly
concealing her confusion, she replied, "They ought to look nice--make
better dec'rations, 'cause these are the first I've seen this year."

"Oh! I thought you said _sell_, and I wondered if you thought Miss
Dunbar would pay us for them."

"Oh, mercy, no!" laughed Peace, and Cherry questioned no further.

But she would have been surprised had she seen this young sister
stealing out of the house the next morning with baskets and flowers in
her arms, headed in the opposite direction from Miss Dunbar's village
home. Once out of sight of the house, Peace broke into a wild run and
never stopped until the old stone bridge was reached. Here Allee was
waiting for her--a queer little figure in a faded blue gown of long,
long ago, hatless, barefooted, but looking oh, so sweet, with her
sparkling blue eyes and her mop of tangled yellow curls crowned with a
wreath of fragrant clover blossoms. "How long you've been!" she greeted
Peace. "I thought you would never come. Where's Cherry?"

"I came as soon as I could," was the panting reply, as Peace dropped her
burden on the grass and smoothed out a rumpled pink dress of as ancient
a style as Allee's. "I had to help with the dishes, and then Faith made
me take the milk to Abbott's so's Hope could do something for her. I
didn't want Cherry. It takes such a long time to knock any sense into
her head that we never would get into town today if she had to be
coaxed. Besides, I thought if there were three of us, folks might think
the whole family was out peddling, and maybe wouldn't buy like they
would of just two. There, don't those boats look lovely? The only thing
is, our basket won't hold as many as I hoped it would. I couldn't jam in
but fifteen. That will be enough, though, if we can sell them at ten
cents each. Oh, I've got a scheme! We will lay our flowers in the basket
on the moss and hitch these horns on our dresses. I've got as many as
ten pins in my dress which I don't need for anything else." While she
spoke she emptied the birch bark boats of their brilliant cargo again,
and deftly pinned the quaint devices to their gowns, so they dangled
fantastically from their ribbon handles.

"Now are we ready?" asked Allee, as the last flower was tucked carefully
away in its bed of moss, and covered over with newspapers.

"Yes, and well have to hurry or miss the car. It's quite a ways through
the woods to the track. I wish they would run clear into Parker, don't
you?"

They scrambled down the bank of the creek and scurried away through the
trees to the little clearing where the city cars stopped at the end of
the line.

"There's a car just ready to start," panted Peace, and she waved her
hand frantically at the conductor who was lustily shouting, "All
aboard!" and jangling the bell to hurry up any belated passengers.

"Nearly missed it, didn't you, kids?" he said genially, as they
clambered up the steps and the car moved slowly away toward the city.

"Yes," breathed the older girl, settling her luggage on the seat and
sitting down beside it. "I am very glad you waited for us. We're anxious
to get down town while our flowers are fresh."

"Going to sell 'em?"

"Yes. You better buy a basketful. You can have a horn or a boat, and
choose your own kind of flowers. We've got pink and yellow
lady's-slippers, tiger lilies, Johnny-jump-ups, baby's tears, and a few
Jack-in-the-pulpits."

As she made her explanation, she drew aside the paper protecting her
precious blossoms, and the man exclaimed in delight, "The woods! My,
aren't they scrumptious? I'll take a boat. What is your price?"

"Ten cents."

"Ten cents? Why, child, that isn't enough! Here's a quarter. Gimme
lady's-slippers. And say, the motorman would like one, too. He's got a
girl. Give him something swell--a little of everything. There, that's
right! Stick a tiger lily right in the middle and plaster up the edges
like you did mine. Whee! ain't that gorgeous? I'll bring you the dough
right away." Snatching up the mass of vivid colors, he dashed up the
length of the car, thrust his head into the motorman's vestibule, and
after a moment's conversation came back and dropped a half-dollar into
Peace's trembling hand, saying, "That's his contribution. It's worth it.
Why, there ain't a florist in the city who can show such beauties!"

"Mercy!" exclaimed the bewildered Peace, looking at her money and trying
to figure out how much more was needed for her wants. "That means a pair
of shoes and one over. Why, Allee, if everybody would just pay like
that, we will get through quick, won't we? But I 'xpect lots of 'em will
try to make us take only a nickel. Just s'posing we get enough money to
buy shoes for the whole family! Wouldn't they be s'prised? Thank you,
Mister Conductor, and thank the motorman, too. We would like to know his
girl. Does she ever ride on his car and do you s'pose he would bring
her over to play with us some day? We'd meet her at the end of the line.
Or maybe she is too big for us."

The conductor laughed in boyish delight, "Yes, I am afraid she is too
big. In fact, she is quite a lady--" Here the car stopped for
passengers, and their new friend went out on the platform where he
stayed most of the time until they reached the heart of the city. But as
he helped them off the car at the busy corner nearest Cameron's Shoe
Store, he said, "If I was you, I would go right over there in the door
of that big building. I think you can sell all the flowers you have."

So they took up their stand as he had suggested, and waited for
customers; but though many passers-by idly wondered at the odd little
figures so overhung with birch bark trifles, no one stopped to inquire
their business until a big, burly policeman, who had been watching the
wistful, almost frightened little faces, strolled up to them and kindly
asked, "Are you lost, little girls?"

"No, sir," promptly responded Peace, jerking aside the cover of her
basket and briskly beginning to fill one of the birch bark canoes
hitched to Allee's dress. "We are selling flowers. Would you like a
chance to buy some that grew in the real woods? We've got money enough
now for three shoes, but we need three more to have enough to go around.
They are only ten cents each unless you want to pay more, but we won't
sell them for a nickel."

Seeing the blue-coated officer talking with such odd little waifs, a
crowd had quickly gathered about the trio, and a host of friendly voices
echoed the policeman's hearty laugh at the jumbled recital.

"I'll take one," shouted a fashionably dressed man, elbowing his way to
the front. "Give me a horn and fill it up with those little pansies. I
haven't seen any of them since I was a kid."

"Those are Johnny-jump-ups," responded Peace gravely, detaching a horn
from Allee's gown and heaping it up with the tiny flowers. "It's ten
cents or more."

He laughed. "How much does 'or more' mean?"

"Much as you think they're worth. They came from the woods, you know."

"And you think that makes them more valuable--worth more, I mean?" And
he dropped a shining dollar into the small, brown hand.

"Oh, yes! City folks can't often get wild flowers, my tramp says, and
they ought to be glad for a chance to pay high for them."

The crowd shouted, and the policeman ventured to ask, "So you think lots
of the woods, do you?"

"You bet!" was the emphatic reply. "It's next best to heaven. Just
s'posing the whole world was made up of these great, high, dirty
houses, without any woods or flowers or trees anywhere. Wouldn't it be
dreadful?" The dismal picture she painted was singularly effective, and
other purchasers gathered around, clamoring for her wares.

"I will give you a dime for one of those pink lady's-slippers," said a
bent, old man.

"Here's a quarter for a spray of those white blossoms," another voice
broke in; and very quickly the fresh, beautiful, woodland flowers
changed hands, while the pile of coins in Peace's lap grew amazingly.

A little, ragged, wan-looking bootblack edged through the crowd, and
stood with wistful eyes fixed on the rapidly diminishing bouquets,
drinking in their beauty, and wishing with all his heart that one of
them might be his. He fingered the few pennies in his pocket longingly,
and finally, unable to curb his desire longer, he touched Peace's arm
and timidly faltered, "Say, lady, will ye gimme one o' them red fellers
for a cent? I--I'd like one mighty well, and I ain't got no more money
to spare."

Peace lifted her big eyes to the pale, drawn, wistful face of the boy,
possibly as old as Cherry, but no older, and a great wave of pity swept
through her heart. "You can have it for nothing. Here, take this whole
bunch," she said, emptying her basket and thrusting the last handful of
gorgeous bloom into his trembling hands. "I am sorry all the birch bark
is gone, but I am sold out. You haven't any shoes, either. Cameron's are
selling canvas shoes today at forty-nine cents a pair. We've got lots
more'n enough money for Cherry and Allee and me--you can have this to
get yourself some with." And before her interested audience could
realize what she was doing, she had selected a silver dollar from the
jingling mass in her apron, and pressed it into the bootblack's grimy
fist, while he stood like one turned to stone, staring at the money,
unable to believe his senses. Then he took a step toward the little
flower girl, but a gentleman in the throng, deeply touched by the
unusual scene, said, "Keep it, sonny, and thank the good God for such
sweet spirits as hers. Here is another dollar to keep it company. Better
run home now and take a little vacation. You are sick."

Then how the men cheered! And to Peace's utter bewilderment, one tall,
dignified old gentleman, whose face looked strangely familiar, slipped a
shining gold coin into her hand and another into Allee's, saying
reverently, "For the Peace which passeth understanding!"

She sat in puzzled silence for a moment, gazing first at the glittering
heap in her lap, and then at the sea of friendly faces about her, while
the crowd waited in curious expectancy to hear what she had to say. Her
lips opened once or twice as if to speak, then closed again; but at last
she said simply, "You've paid lots better'n I thought you would, and
not a single once has anyone tried to buy a boat for a nickel. I--I wish
we could have brought you the whole woods, birds and all. You would have
liked it better. I b'lieve I said 'thank you' to every one who has
bought any flowers, but if I did forget, Allee hasn't. That was to be
her part--just to say 'thank you,' so folks would know we had some
manners and were glad to have you buy. But somehow, it feels
here"--putting her hand over her heart--"as if that wasn't enough, and
so we will sing you a little song--that is, Allee will sing, and I'll
whistle. I can't really sing anything, Faith says, 'cept the tune the
old cow died on. But Mike taught me how to whistle, and our minister
says I do real well for a girl. I tried to think of some thankful song
to sing, but I can't remember a one just now, so we'll sing a lullabye.
Are you ready, Allee?"

"Yes."

"Then begin!" Peace puckered her rosy lips, Allee opened her baby mouth,
and this is the song they sang:

    "Baby-bye, bye-oh-bye,
    Baby-bye, baby-bye,
    Mother's darling, don't you cry,
    Close your eyes for night is nigh;
    Baby-bye, oh, baby,
    Baby-bye, oh, bye."

"Amen," said Peace reverently. "Now we are going to Cameron's Shoe Store
for canvas shoes. What size do you s'pose a girl two years older'n I
would wear? I forgot to ask Cherry."

"The clerk will know," suggested someone; and the crowd went their
separate ways with smiles on their lips, while the two odd, childish
figures trudged around the corner to Cameron's Shoe Store to make their
important purchases. An obliging young man fitted the little feet with
the precious canvas slippers, and sent them away rejoicing with a pair
for Cherry, promising to exchange them for others if they failed to fit.

"Now we'll go home," said Peace, as they stepped out onto the sidewalk
again. "Won't Gail and Faith be s'prised? I guess we've got 'most money
enough left to get shoes for the whole family after all. Well, sir, if
they haven't changed those cars since we went into the shoe store! We
came down on a big yellow one that said, 'Twentieth Avenue North' on it,
and here they are running two little bits of cars hitched together that
say, 'Onion Depot!'" Peace employed the phonetic method of pronouncing
words, and to her young eyes u-n-i-o-n was easily _onion_.

"What are you going to do about it?" asked puzzled Allee.

"Sit down here on the sidewalk and wait till they change them back
again," was the reply; and Peace plumped herself down in a bunch on the
curbing to watch for the yellow car which did not come. One hour dragged
by,--two, three. Allee was getting restless. Dinner hour had long since
passed, and she was very hungry. "It's getting pretty late, I guess,"
she ventured at last. "When do you s'pose the car will come?"

"I s'pect there's been a fire somewhere and stopped it. That happened
once when Gail was in town."

"Maybe we better start to walk, then," quavered the little voice. "I am
tired of sitting here, and Gail will fret if we don't come pretty
quick."

"Well, perhaps we better--"

"Peace Greenfield! What on earth are you doing here?"

The two children flew to their feet with a cry of relief, "Oh, Mrs.
Grinnell, our car is never coming!"

"No, I guess it won't on these tracks," she replied grimly, guessing
from the children's appearance something of the truth. "Does your mother
or Gail know you are here? Pile in and ride home with me. Like as not
your folks are half crazy with fright."

So the weary duet climbed thankfully into the buggy and were driven
safely back to Parker, where they were met by four white-faced sisters
and a swarm of anxious neighbors.

"Got shoes for the whole outfit!" cried Peace by way of greeting; "and
if Cherry's don't fit, the clerk said bring 'em back and he'd change
'em. We've sold all our flowers, and one man gave each of us some funny
yellow quarters--or I guess they are half dollars. It says on one side,
'Five D.' and I suppose that means five dimes, doesn't it? Why, Gail,
what are you crying for? I sh'd think you'd laugh to think there are
three pair of shoes already bought, and money enough for the rest of
you."




CHAPTER V

SACKCLOTH AND ASHES


Just at dusk one cold, rainy night late in August, a shabby, weary, wet,
old man plodded through the dripping woods, across the stone bridge, and
up the road toward Parker. He had come a long way through mud and
moisture, and was very tired, yet the first three farmhouses he passed
by with scarcely a glance. But as he neared the fourth one, he eagerly
scanned the place as if familiar with its surroundings, and listened
intently for the sound of voices, seeming disappointed at the result,
for apparently not a creature was stirring indoors or out. Not even old
Towzer came to challenge him as he unlatched the gate and approached the
house, and not a ray of light shone out into the darkness from window or
door, though it was yet early evening. The place was as silent as a
grave. Puzzled, the man made a circuit of the cottage, but neither saw
nor heard anything of the occupants.

"I wonder what has happened," he thought to himself. "Guess I won't
knock, it might scare them if they have gone to bed. Maybe they are away
visiting. I will just slip into the barn and go to bed in the hay. Lucky
I had a big dinner, I am not in the least hungry now, and if they are
at home I can get breakfast here in the morning--I guess."

He had tramped many long miles since dawn, trying to reach this town
before nightfall, and was so worn out with his exertions that he fell
asleep almost as soon as he had burrowed a comfortable bed in the
sweet-scented hay, nor did he awake until the new day was several hours
old. The sun was shining--he could tell that from the bright light in
the barn, but it was not the sunshine which had awakened him.

The first thing he was conscious of as he opened his eyes to unfamiliar
surroundings was the sound of voices close by, and the patter of feet on
the loose boards overhead. Cautiously he lifted himself on his elbow and
looked about him, but at first he saw only an untidy confusion of garden
tools, boxes, bags and other truck, piled promiscuously about wherever
space would accommodate them. Then as his eyes became more accustomed to
the light, he discovered a slender, brown-haired girl in a faded, dingy,
calico gown huddled on top of a pile of empty grain sacks in the darkest
corner of the barn. Her face was turned from him, but from her attitude
and the sound of an occasional sniff, he judged that she had been
crying. Her companion on the rafters overhead was out of range of his
vision; but as she scrambled noisily over the loose board floor, which
extended only half way across the building, he could catch a glimpse of
red now and then, and once a bare, brown foot appeared in view, but that
was all. Not daring to make his presence known for fear of frightening
the two sisters, he drew silently back into his hiding place to await
their departure.

Sniff, sniff, sniff! The slender shoulders of the girl in the corner
began to heave, and she buried her face deeper among the grain sacks.
Silence on the rafters for a brief moment; then a voice said severely,
"'F I was you, Faith Greenfield, I'd stop crying and go into the house
and help Gail. She is trying to do the washing herself so's to save
money."

"'F I was you, Peace Greenfield," was the tart reply, "I'd try to mind
my business once in a while, and not be forever poking my nose into
other folks' affairs."

"Guess this is my affair as much as 'tis yours!" answered Peace sharply,
and the listener in the hay below fancied there was the suggestion of a
sob in her voice.

"It's none of your affair if I want to come out here by myself, but you
can't even let me alone here. You are always snooping around to see what
I am doing."

"I am _not_ snooping!" was the indignant denial. "I'm hunting eggs for
breakfast, and I was here first, 'cause I saw you come in bawling."

"Bawling!" Faith leaped to her feet in wild fury. "You know well enough
why I am crying. You would be crying, too, if you cared like I do."

"I can cry with my heart without stopping to cry with my eyes," Peace
answered soberly. "I haven't time to sit down and bawl. Someone's got to
run errands and help Gail. S'posing we all sat up and cried all the time
like you are doing. Who would get breakfast and dinner and supper, I'd
like to know? And who would 'tend to the work?"

"Who wants any breakfast or dinner or supper? I am sure I don't! I
haven't the heart to eat. I _can't_ eat!"

"Dr. Bainbridge told us we must, and so did Mr. Strong; and he told us
to keep busy, too. It helps you to forget the ache if you work."

"Forget! You don't care; that's why--" There was a sudden movement on
the rafters above, and an egg came hurtling through the barn, smashing
on the wall close by Faith's head--so close that a shower of little
yellow spatters flew over her face and dress. "Peace Greenfield!"

"You haven't got half what you deserve," said a tense, hard voice from
above. "I ought to have slung the whole batch, even if we'd had to go
without breakfast. I'd like to know how _you_ can tell whether you care
more than the rest of us. You think you are the only one that knows how
to be sorry."

There was a sudden silence--deep, ominous, it seemed to the man in the
hay, and he ventured to peep out at the combatants, but all he saw was
Faith standing rigid and white-faced in the corner. When she spoke, her
voice was frigid in its intensity.

"Come down from those beams, Peace Greenfield, and take the rest of
those eggs to the house!"

"I am coming down as fast as I can," began Peace's voice, equally
frigid. Then there was a sound of ripping, a dreadful clatter, a dull
thud, and Faith rushed forward with the agonized scream, "Oh, Peace,
Peace, are you hurt? I am sorry I was ugly! You _do_ care! Open your
eyes, Peace! Oh-h-h-h!"

The tramp started up in dismay, to behold Peace huddled in a heap at the
foot of the ladder, with frantic Faith bending over her. Before he had
stepped from the haymow, however, there was a rush of feet from without,
and four frightened girls dashed into the barn, followed by a tall,
young man in clerical garb; and the shabby figure slunk back into his
hiding place without making his presence known.

"What's the matter?"

"How did it happen?"

"Is she dead?"

"Run for the doctor!" cried the excited voices.

"Oh, Gail, I've killed her, I've killed her!" sobbed Faith.

"Stand back, girls," quietly commanded the minister, pushing the
trembling quartette almost roughly aside. "Let me examine her. Perhaps
she is only--"

"I'm every bit all right," exclaimed Peace crossly, winking her brown
eyes dazedly. "The fall _stunted_ me, I guess. I lit on my head. So did
the eggs. Mercy me! What a mess!"

"But look at her face!" wailed frightened and penitent Faith. "She has
turned black, and so have her hands!"

She certainly _had_ changed her color.

At Faith's despairing cry, the victim of the fall raised one of her
brown hands and looked at it fixedly; then said briefly, "That's ashes.
It's on my face, too. It will wash off, won't it?"

Without reply, the minister lifted her to her feet and drew her into the
doorway where the sunlight fell upon her. The sisters looked at the
grotesque picture, and exclamations of horror and dismay burst from
their lips.

"Peace, what have you done to yourself?"

"Are you sick?"

"What have you got on?"

She presented a strange appearance, truly, draped in dirty, ragged
burlap, with face, hands and hair covered with ashes, and smeared from
head to foot with broken eggs and bits of eggshell.

The tramp hid his face in the hay to stifle his chuckles, the minister
covered his twitching lips with his hands, but the little group of
sisters gazed at the apparition with only horror in their eyes.

Then, to everyone's amazement, Peace began to cry. In an instant Gail
had slipped her arms around her, and had drawn the brown head down on
her shoulder, where for a moment the child sobbed heartbrokenly. Then,
with a mighty gulp, she swallowed back her grief and explained, "I heard
Hope reading about the people who put on ash-cloth and sashes--I mean
sackcloth and ashes whenever any one of their family died, so's the
angels would let the soul into heaven. No one did that when papa
died--and we don't know whether he ever got to heaven or not--but he's a
man and could take care of himself, s'posing he didn't get in. With
mother it's different, though. She's a ninvalid, and I couldn't bear to
think of her outside the gates all alone with none of us to take care of
her--so I put on potato sacks--that's sackcloth, ain't it?--and ashes.
The eggs got there by mistake. They were whole when I began to climb
down that ladder."

The picture was so ludicrous, the explanation so piteous, that between
their wild desire to laugh and the stronger desire to cry, it was a
hysterical group who closed in once more about the grotesque little
figure, while the earnest-hearted, sympathetic young preacher swept away
Peace's fears, and gave her the comfort and assurance she sought.

"Sackcloth and ashes were merely outward signs of mourning for nations
in ages past," he told her. "It didn't help anyone get into heaven. It
didn't even show how great were their sorrow and grief; and when people
came to realize that, they ceased to follow the custom. God knows how
sorrowful we are, for He can read our very thoughts. It doesn't need
sackcloth and ashes to carry our loved ones home, dear. They lived good,
noble, true lives in His sight while they were here on earth, and now He
has taken them home--inside the Gates--to live with Him always."

"You are sure?" hiccoughed Peace.

"Perfectly sure! The Bible tells us so."

"Where? I want to see for myself."

He drew a worn Testament from his pocket, turned to the Fourteenth
Chapter of St. John, and slowly, impressively read those beautiful
words, "In my Father's house are many mansions," explaining his
understanding of the passage so clearly, so comfortingly that finally
the tears were dried and the aching hearts soothed.

At length the grief-stricken company repaired to the house for their
belated breakfast, while the tramp, touched to the quick by the pathos
of the scene he had just witnessed, made his way across the fields and
through the woods, leaving only a crumpled ten-dollar bill among the
grain sacks to tell of his visit.




CHAPTER VI

THANKSGIVING DAY AT THE BROWN HOUSE


"Gail!"

"Yes, dear."

Peace stood at the kitchen window looking out into the winter twilight,
heavy with falling snow, but as she spoke, she turned her back on the
scene without, and walked over to the table where the oldest sister was
busy kneading bread. "Are we going to have turkey for tomorrow? It's
Thanksgiving Day, you know."

"We can't afford turkey, Peace."

"Chicken, then?"

"No."

"But we keep chickens ourselves, Gail! I'll kill one for you if it's
just 'cause you can't chop its head off."

A smile flashed across Gail's sweet, care-worn face. "It isn't that,
dear. We can't spare any. All our extra roosters we used for broth
when--"

"Yes, I know," interrupted the smaller sister hastily. "But haven't we
got a tough old hen that isn't good for anything else?"

Again Gail smiled, but answered patiently, "I am afraid not, Peace. All
our hens are laying now, and eggs mean money. We can't afford to kill
them."

"Can't we buy one?"

"There is no money."

"Have you used up all we made selling flowers?"

"That went long ago."

"And the bill we found in the barn?"

"No, dear. We don't know whose that is, or where it came from. Someone
may come along and claim it one of these days."

"I don't see how anyone could have _lost_ that money in the barn, Gail.
It was _pinned_ down to the grain sacks with a real pin. Folks don't
carry bills around in their pockets with pins in them; and s'posing they
did, if the bills dropped out of their pockets, they wouldn't up and pin
_themselves_ onto gateposts and grain sacks. Someone must have left them
for us to use. First I thought it was my tramp, and that maybe he was a
prince in disgust"--she meant disguise--"but now I think it was Mr.
Strong, even if he did say he had nothing to do with it."

"Peace! Did you ask him again, after I told you not to mention it?"

"N-o, not ezackly. I just wrote it on a piece of paper and he did the
same. You never said I mustn't _write_ it, Gail."

"What did you write?" asked Gail, faintly.

"I just said--well, here's the paper. I kept it 'cause he is such a
pretty writer."

She drew a crumpled scrap out of her pocket, smoothed it out carefully,
and passed it over to Gail. At the top of the page in Peace's childish
scrawl were scribbled these words, "Didn't you reely put that muny in
our barn?" Below, in Mr. Strong's firm, flowing handwriting, was the
answer, "I reely didn't." "Are you purfickly shure you aint lying just
to be plite?" was the next question. "Purfickly shure." "Cross your
heart?" "Cross my heart."

Silently Gail dropped the slip back onto the table and fell to moulding
her biscuit vigorously, biting her lips to hide a telltale smile.

Peace watched her for a time and then began again, "Are we going to have
meat of any kind tomorrow?"

"I am afraid not, dear."

"What--what do you 'xpect to have?"

"Just potatoes and cabbage and beets, I guess."

"It will seem kind of hard to be thankful for such a dinner as that,
won't it?" sighed Peace.

"There are lots of people in the city who won't have that much--unless
the churches and Associated Charities give them dinners."

"I wish someone would give _us_ a turkey. I could be lots thankfuller
over a drumstick than over a cabbage leaf or a beet pickle."

"That isn't the right spirit, dear," remonstrated Gail, wondering how
she could clinch her argument with this small sister. "Thanksgiving Day
was created so we might have a special day to thank the Lord for the
blessings He has given us during the year--food and clothing and home
and family."

"Yes, teacher told us all about that, but seems to me people ought to
give thanks every day instead of saving them up for a whole year and
praying them all in a lump."

"Oh, Peace! I didn't mean that. People do thank Him every day. Don't we
always say grace when we sit down at the table? But Thanksgiving Day is
a special time for giving thanks. It is in the fall after the crops are
all in, and the barns are full of hay and grain, and the cellars filled
with vegetables; and we thank Him for the good harvests."

"S'posing the harvests ain't good? We didn't get much off from our farm
this year. I am tired already of turnips and carrots."

"What if we had no vegetables at all?"

"Well, that would be worser, wouldn't it? I s'pose we ought to be glad
for even that."

"Yes, dear; there is always something to give thanks for. Suppose you
take a piece of paper and write out all the things you have to be
thankful for this year."

The idea was a novel one to Peace, and after a moment of debate, she
searched out pencil and tablet, drew up an old hassock beside a chair,
which she used as her table, and laboriously began to compile her list
of thankfuls. She finished her task just as Gail announced the supper
hour, and dropped the sheet, scribbled full of crooked letters, into the
mending basket, where Gail found it that evening when the three little
sisters were fast asleep in their beds. Hope was busy with her lessons
and Faith sat listlessly in front of the wheezy organ, idly playing
snatches of melody. So Gail spread the paper out on the table and read
with reverent eyes what Peace had written from the depths of her heart:

     "I am thankful cause my tramp didn't burn us up with his matches.

     "Dito (dito means I am thankful and its lots shorter to rite) cause
     of the muny pined to the gatepost and granesaks in the barn, but I'd
     be more thankful if Gale would spend it.

     "I am thankful cause Mr. Strong says our 2 angels got inside the
     gates all right.

     "Dito cause there ain't any more of us angels.

     "Dito cause Hector Abbott got licked for teezing lame Jenny
     Munn--his name just fits him.

     "Dito cause Mr. Strong is our preecher--he's got some sense.

     "Dito for his wife.

     "Dito for Towzer. He's a good dog.

     "Dito for all the rest of our family.

     "Dito cause we have some shoes to wear this winter.

     "Dito cause for carrots and beets and turnips and cabbige and
     potatoes. They don't take the place of turkey, but they are good
     vittles.

     "Dito for the hens that lay eggs so we cant kill them for
     Thanksgiving dinner.

     "Dito for the eggs. They meen muny, Gale says.

     "Dito for the hot biskits we are going to have for supper.

     "Dito cause this paper wont hold any more. My hand akes.

     "Amen. Peace Greenfield."

For a long moment Gail sat with tear-dimmed eyes fixed on the queer list
before her; then she reverently tucked the badly-written sheet away
among her treasures, and in her heart offered up a little prayer of
thanksgiving for the blessed gift of so many sisters.

Thanksgiving Day dawned clear and cold upon a world of dazzling
whiteness, and with the first ray of the sun, Peace flew out of bed,
scrambling into her clothes with such eager haste that Cherry opened her
eyes and demanded, "What are you hurrying for? The house is cold as a
barn. Gail slept late this morning, and the fire can't be more than
beginning to burn."

"Huh, I don't care! It snowed last night, and I'm going out to shovel,"
was the scornful reply. "If you want a chance to help, you will have to
hurry."

Allee scrambled out from the warm blankets, but Cherry snuggled down
closer in the pillows with a contented grunt, and was soon lost in
slumberland again, so the two youngest sisters had the whole
snow-covered world to themselves when they stepped out into the winter
morning with shovel and broom.

"Whee! Isn't this fine!" cried Peace, whirling a cloud of feathery
flakes off the porch with one sweep. "We won't need the shovel at all,
the snow is so light."

Beauty-loving Allee stopped awestruck on the threshold to drink in the
glory of the winter dawn, saying slowly, "It is--it looks like--"

"Ice-cream," finished Peace. "S'posing it was ice-cream and we could
have all we wanted. Wouldn't we be a sick crowd by night?"

The startled sister pulled on her mittens and trudged down the steps to
work, and in a few minutes, the porches and paths were swept clean.

"Wish there was more to do," sighed Allee, when they had finished their
chosen task, unwilling to go indoors even for breakfast.

"Tell you what," cried Peace, from her perch on the gatepost. "Let's go
down to the village and sweep paths for money. Perhaps we could earn
enough to buy a chicken."

"All right! Where will we go?"

"Judge Abbott will pay us, I'm sure, and Mr. Strong would hire us, too,
if he hasn't swept his own walks. Maybe Lute Dunbar isn't home yet and
we can get their paths."

Without further discussion they sped away to town, dragging their brooms
behind them. But here disappointment awaited the small toilers, for at
nearly every house some enterprising soul had already cleared away the
light snow.

"Lute Dunbar must be at home, I guess," sighed Peace, when she beheld
the neat paths circling that house; "and Mr. Strong has swept his whole
yard, looks like. Well, Judge Abbott's porch is all covered yet. Hector
is lazy. We will try him."

Marching up to the door, she knocked timidly, but to her dismay, no one
answered, though three times she repeated the summons.

"What shall we do, go back home?" asked Allee, visibly disappointed, for
visions of roast chicken were very alluring to her.

"No," answered Peace with sudden decision. "We'll sweep his paths and
collect our pay when it is done."

So again they fell to work making the snow fly briskly, and in a short
time had cleared steps and walks, but apparently no one was yet stirring
within doors.

"Guess they are still in bed," suggested Allee. "We will have to come
back later."

"If we are going to have chicken for dinner we ought to get it as soon
as possible, so's Gail can fix it, 'cause it takes hours to cook. I'm
going to knock again and see if I can't wake someone. It's time they
were up anyway. Rich folks do sleep an awful long time in the morning."

Mounting the steps once more, she knocked loudly, with no result. A
happy inspiration seized her, and picking up her broom, she tapped on
the door with the handle. No one came.

"I don't b'lieve that is loud enough," whispered Allee. "You'd better
pound."

"I think so myself," answered Peace, clutching the broom like a
battering ram and giving the door three resounding thumps that shook the
house from cellar to garret, and sounded like the booming of a cannon.

"Try it again," urged impatient Allee, and again the broom struck the
panels with thunderous force, once, twice--

The door burst open with sudden fury, and an angry-faced man in a long
bathrobe confronted the paralyzed children with the fierce demand, "What
in creation do you want?"

"It--it's time to get up," stammered Peace. "I mean, it--it snowed last
night. I mean, we've swep' your walks off. We s'posed you'd be glad to
pay us for our trouble."

"Well!" ejaculated the man, too much surprised for further speech.

"We've swep' real clean--better than Hector ever does."

"Well!" repeated the Judge, an amused gleam in his eyes chasing away the
angry frown. "How much do I owe you, Peace? You are Peace Greenfield,
are you not?"

"Yes, sir. A quarter will do, I think. The snow was very light, but
you've got lots of porch and walk."

"That's a fact, we have. Here is a quarter for you, and many thanks for
your good work."

"You are much obliged," she answered gravely, mixing her pronouns in her
haste to slip the coin inside her damp mitten. "I wish you a merry
Thanksgiving."

With a whoop of delight she bounded down the steps, snatched Allee's
hand, and rushed away up the street to the butcher shop for their
chicken, never pausing for breath until she had dropped the money onto
the counter before the astonished proprietor, who was making ready to
close his shop for the day. "A quarter's worth of chicken, Mr. Jones,"
she panted. "I was afraid you would be gone before we could collect from
the Judge."

"Sorry, Peace," answered the astonished man, "but I haven't any chickens
as small as that."

"Haven't you a cheap old hen?" she faltered, almost too disappointed to
speak.

"No, I am afraid not."

"And you can't sell me a _piece_ of chicken?"

"No, we never do that, either."

"Oh, dear," sighed Allee. "We swep' that walk all for nothing!"

But Peace's bright eyes had caught sight of a tall, wooden bucket on the
counter, and now she demanded, "Is that oysters?"

"Yes, jimdandies."

"That's next best to chicken. I'll take a quarter's worth of them. We
will have a Thanksgiving after all, Allee."

Bearing the precious burden carefully in her arms, Peace was hurrying
down the street toward home, followed by the happy Allee trailing the
two old brooms, when they were halted by an excited, boyish voice,
screaming lustily, "Peace, oh Peace! Wait a minute! I've got something
for you."

She stopped short in the snow and waited impatiently for the boy to
overtake her, more interested in her bucket of oysters than in the
prospect of a gift from him; but as he drew near, she saw he carried two
white, furry bundles, and her eyes grew bright with anticipation.

"Surely not your bunnies, Bryan?" she gasped.

"Yep! We are going to move back to the city on Monday, and papa said I
must leave these here. They will starve with no one to take care of
them, and you always thought they were so pretty, I decided to give them
to you--that is, if you want them."

"Want them? Oh, Bryan, they are the cutest things! I like pets and never
have had any all of my very own, 'cept the chicken Mr. Hardman stole.
Give one to Allee, and I will carry the other. Tuck your broom under
your arm, Allee, and give me mine. There! I'm awful glad you brought
them to us, Bryan. We will take real good care of them."

Once more the sisters trudged on their way, happily excited and eager to
show their new possessions to the family at home.

"Gobble, gobble, gobble!"

Allee screamed, dropped her broom and almost let go of the little white
rabbit in her fear. "Oh, Peace, he's after us again and we can't run!"

"Maybe he won't touch us if we don't look at him," began the older
sister; but the old gobbler, with ruffled feathers and wattles flaming,
came straight toward them, and Peace stopped with a jerk.

"Drop your bunny in my skirt, Allee, grab that broom and hit the gobbler
over the head. Mr. Hardman said to do that whenever he bothered us and
he would soon get tired of it." As she spoke she gathered her skirt up
apron-fashion, and thrust both rabbits within the folds, while Allee
snatched up the broom, according to instructions, and made ready for the
attack.

"Gobble, gobble, gobble!" The enemy advanced rapidly, but before he
could strike either child the blue-eyed baby let the hard-wood stick fly
with all her might over the fierce old head, and without another sound
the monstrous bird crumpled up in the snow.

"Mercy!" screamed Peace. "You've killed him! There, don't cry! Hold your
coat for the rabbits while I tote this thing up to Hardman's house. I
told you to hit him, but Mr. Hardman told us, too."

Laying down her own burdens, she seized the heavy turkey by the neck and
dragged it up the path to the door of the green house. "Here's your old
bird," she chattered, when Mr. Hartman answered her knock. "He'll never
gobble again! We hit him over the head, just as you told us to, and he
laid right down and died. But we never meant to kill him. If you chop
his head off right away, he will be good to eat yet, for we just now
finished him. 'F I had the money, I'd pay for him, just so's we could
have a Thanksgiving dinner over at our house, but I spent all I had for
oysters, and, besides, I s'pose likely you would charge more'n a quarter
for him. You told us to hit him, you know."

With never a word of reply, the dazed man dragged the carcass into the
house and shut the door, leaving Peace glaring indignantly after him.
"Well, that's manners," she finally sputtered, and stamped angrily away
to help Allee home with her load.

"Here are some oysters," she announced, depositing the paper bucket on
the kitchen table.

"We earned them shoveling Judge Abbott's porches off. And here are Bryan
Tenney's rabbits. He has given them to us for keeps."

"Well, you can march them straight back," declared Faith, with energy.
"Where do you expect to keep rabbits on this place?"

"In a box of hay in the barn. We may keep them, mayn't we, Gail?"

"They will die of cold," protested Faith.

"We won't let them. There are lots of gunny sacks we can cover over the
box until it gets warmer."

"They will dig the whole farm up and spoil the garden when spring
comes."

Gail was perplexed. How could she refuse the children's eager eyes? Yet
clearly they could not keep the little animals. There were scarcely
enough vegetables in the cellar to last the family until the winter
months were over, let alone feeding a pair of hungry rabbits.

While she hesitated, Hope entered the room, and with a cry of rapture,
she snatched up one pink-nosed bunny and hid her face in its fur,
exclaiming, "Oh, you darlings! Are they yours, Peace? We will fix up
that old, big box in Black Prince's stall and they will be as cosy as
babies. What shall you call them?"

"Winkum and Blinkum," was the prompt answer. "Their noses are never
still. Shall we fix up the box right now?" The four younger sisters
gathered up the rabbits and departed for the barn. The question was
settled to their satisfaction, at least.

In the meantime, at the Hartman house the gentle little wife was busily
plucking the mammoth gobbler, while Mr. Hartman stood idly by the
kitchen window, gazing out into the winter sunshine. But his thoughts
were not idle, and when at length the great bird was stripped clean, he
turned to the woman and said, "What are we going to do with the thing?
If they had just killed it before we dressed one for ourselves--"

"Better take it over to them. It's too late to dispose of it to the
butcher, and I am afraid they will have a pretty slim dinner. Mrs.
Grinnell thinks they are badly pinched for money."

"Sho, now, Myra Ann! It's just because they don't know how to manage.
They've got one of the best farms in this part of the country."

"It's mortgaged, and you have the mortgage."

"Yes, but with proper handling they ought to clear that off easily."

"They had to sell Black Prince--"

"And got a fancy price for him, too. That alone would pretty nearly have
paid the mortgage. If they are hard up, it's their own fault."

"Mrs. Grinnell is in position to know if anyone does. The mother's
sickness must have been terribly costly, and now they are orphans. They
are in a bad way, I feel sure, and this turkey would come in mighty
handy."

He offered no further arguments, but a few moments later, when Gail
answered a knock at the kitchen door, she found their neighbor standing
there with the turkey in his arms. Almost too surprised to understand,
she accepted his offering, and he was gone before she could stammer out
her thanks.

Then how they bustled in the little brown house, preparing such a dinner
as they had seldom eaten before, oyster dressing, creamed carrots,
mashed potatoes, gravy, and--the height of extravagance--cake and
custard, such as only Faith could make. Oh, but that was a dinner!
Nevertheless, as the six hungry girls gathered around the table full of
dainties their faces were sober at the sight of the two empty chairs in
the corner, and each heart bled afresh for the mother who had left them
only a few short months before.

Seeing the shadow in the eyes of her sisters, and feeling depressed by
the abrupt silence, Gail sought to make the sun shine again by
remarking, "I am thankful for so many things, I hardly know which to put
first; but I think I will call it friends. That will include them all."

Faith dropped her eyes and made no attempt to speak.

Perceiving this, Hope, with hardly a pause, began, "I am thankful for
this beautiful day. The world was so spotless and white when we woke, it
seemed like angels' wings had covered up all the sin."

"I'm thankful we have enough to eat and wear," said Cherry. "There is a
family with seven children just moved into that tumble-down old house on
the next road, and they look starved to death, to say nothing of the
rags and patches they wear."

Peace was busily engaged in "being thankful over a drumstick," but as
Cherry ceased speaking, she lifted her round eyes from her plate, and
stopped chewing long enough to say, "I am thankful my nose doesn't
twitch all the time like my rabbit's, that my ears don't grow out of the
top of my head, and that I don't have to hop with both feet wherever I
want to go."

Five knives and forks fell to the table with a clatter, five napkins
flew simultaneously to as many faces, and five voices shrieked out a
chorus of mirth.

It was Thanksgiving Day at the little brown house.




CHAPTER VII

PEACE SURPRISES THE LADIES' AID


"Girls, here are some eggs to be delivered," said Gail one snowy
December day as Cherry and Peace came stamping in from school. "One
basket goes to Judge Abbott's, and the other to Dr. Bainbridge's."

"Oh, Gail," cried two protesting voices, "this is the afternoon we were
to gather evergreens in the woods for decorating the church. The bazaar
begins tomorrow. You promised we might go."

"I had forgotten," murmured Gail. "I am sorry, but the eggs must be
delivered before night."

"Why can't Hope go this once?"

"She is taking care of the Edwards baby."

"Where is Faith?"

"In bed with a headache."

"She _always_ has a headache when there are errands to be done."

"Peace!"

"Those houses are the furthest apart in town. Dr. Bainbridge lives at
one end of the street and the Judge at the other."

"I am sorry, but eggs mean money, you know, and Christmas is coming."

"Well, I s'pose we must," sighed Cherry.

Peace's face brightened suddenly. "I'll tell you--let's each take a
basket and see which can get there first. Then we'll meet at the church
and go to the woods from there."

"All right," agreed Cherry. "You take the Judge's and I'll take the
Doctor's."

So they snatched up their burdens and hurried merrily away, much to
gentle Gail's relief, for she found it hard to disappoint these small
sisters in their gala days.

As far as the church the two went the way together, but here their paths
divided, and they parted, calling back warnings to each other.

"Be sure you wait at the church until I get there."

"Be sure you hurry, for there isn't much time before dark, and the women
have to finish dec'rating tonight."

Then how they scampered down the snowy street, regardless of the frailty
of the loads they bore!

Peace's errand was soon done, and she was back at the little church in a
surprisingly short time, but no Cherry was in sight anywhere; so she sat
down on the steps to await her coming. It was snowing quite hard now,
and the wind grew cold as the afternoon waned.

"Seems 's if I should freeze sitting here," said the shivering child to
herself after stamping her feet and flapping her arms like a Dutch
windmill, in her efforts to get warm. "What can be keeping Cherry? She's
an awfully long time tonight. I s'pose Mrs. Bainbridge has got a gabbing
streak on and will keep her there the rest of the day listening to her.
Cherry never can get away when folks begin talking to her. I ought to
have gone there myself. Bet it wouldn't have taken me this long. My, but
it's growing cold! I wonder if I can't get inside someway. I thought
sure the ladies would be here before now, but I don't see anyone about."

She jumped to her feet and tried the door. It was locked fast.

"Maybe Mr. Strong is in his study and will let me stay there awhile."
But the study door was also secure. "Well, the basement window ain't
fastened, I know, 'cause 'twas only yesterday that Hec Abbott broke it
with a snowball. I can crawl through that and go upstairs into the
church."

Scurrying around the building to the broken window, she crept cautiously
through the sash, just big enough to admit her body; and dropped to the
cement floor below. Considerably jarred--for the window was high in the
wall--she gathered herself up and felt her way up the dark stairs to the
main floor, relieved to find the hall door unlatched so she could step
out into daylight once more.

"Must have been someone here already," she exclaimed in surprise,
"'cause the booths are all up and trimmed. Maybe they don't want any
more evergreens. Well, I'll wait for Cherry and we will see then. P'raps
some of the ladies are coming back, for the furnace is still burning."

She made a tour of the church, admiring the pretty decorations, and
amusing herself by climbing over the seats like a squirrel, while she
waited for Cherry, who did not come. At length she grew tired, the rooms
were warm and dim, and before she knew it she was becoming drowsy.

"I'll just curl up in this old coat and rest a bit," she thought.
"Cherry will make noise enough so I will hear when she comes." But
before the belated sister reached the church Peace was fast asleep, and
her ears were deaf to the trills and whistles outside. Thinking the
younger girl had grown impatient at waiting and, regardless of her
promise, had gone on to the woods, Cherry stopped only long enough to
make sure that Peace was nowhere about the grounds before she hurried
away to join her mates in evergreen gathering.

How long Peace slept she did not know, but the sound of voices in heated
debate roused her from her nap, and she heard Mrs. Wardlaw's sharp tones
saying, "Well, I, for one, don't believe in getting her a suit for
Christmas. She dresses better now than most of us can afford. We never
had a minister's wife before who paraded the clothes she does."

"But she came here a bride, practically," remonstrated a less
aggressive, but just as decided a voice, which Peace recognized as Mrs.
Bainbridge's. "They haven't been married two years yet. Brides always
have more clothes than any other women. Nevertheless, they wear out, and
it doesn't stand to reason that hers will last any longer than ours do."

"She has worn at least three cloth suits since she came, besides all her
summer finery, and two or three separate skirts. I suppose that is where
all Brother Strong's salary goes. Stylish! Why, she is a veritable
fashion plate!"

"I don't see how you can say that, Mrs. Wardlaw. She certainly looks
very neat and up to date in everything she puts on, but I can't see
where there is any fashion plate about her. I call her a very sensible
little woman, just the kind of a wife Brother Strong needs."

"Well, I am not disputing how much sense she has, but I still declare
that she has clothes enough now, without our furnishing her any more for
Christmas."

"That's all you know about it!" cried an indignant voice behind them,
and both startled ladies turned hastily around to find a pair of
flashing brown eyes glaring out from under the janitor's old coat in the
corner, "If Mrs. Strong didn't know how to cut and sew, she would be a
pretty ragged looking minister's wife by this time."

Peace crawled out of her warm bed and shook an angry little finger
accusingly at the women, who exclaimed in unison, "Peace Greenfield, how
did you come here, and what do you want?"

"I don't want anything. I clum in the window so's I wouldn't freeze
while I was waiting for Cherry, and I guess I went to sleep. But I heard
what you were saying, and it ain't so, Mrs. Waddler! Mrs. Strong hasn't
got a lot of clothes. The parsonage burned up where they were last time,
and 'most everything they had to wear was burned up, too. That pretty
gray suit she had when they first came here she dyed brown after you
upset a pot of coffee on it at the church supper that night. But the
brown didn't color even, so she ripped it to pieces and dyed it black.
It was all wearing out, too, so she had to put some trimming on the
skirt to cover up the holes. I was over there and saw her do it myself.
She cut over her wedding dress to have something nice to wear last
summer, and all those sep'rate skirts you talk about are some of her
sister's old ones. She hasn't spent a cent for clothes since she bought
her straw hat, and that cost two dollars and a half. Mr. Strong told me
so, himself. He says she's a jewel of a wife and if there were more
women like her in the world there would be more happier homes. That's
just what he said. Ministers don't get paid enough to keep them in
_victuals_, hardly. I know, 'cause I am part of a minister's family, if
papa's church in Pendennis hadn't starved him out so he got sick and had
to stop preaching, he might not be an angel now.

"S'posing you was a minister's wife, how would you like to have folks be
so stingy mean to you? Wouldn't you like nice clothes to wear and good
things to eat? I was there for supper one night last week when you
lugged in a jug of buttermilk, Mrs. Waddler, you know you did, when you
had promised her fresh milk. I heard you promise. Do you s'pose she
could use buttermilk in her coffee or make custard pie out of it? She
had told Mr. Strong that she was going to make one for his supper, and
he was 'most as disappointed as I was when she couldn't do it.

"Deacon Skinflint sent her some fresh eggs, too, that were so old you
could smell 'em before the shells were broken. I told her 'twas a mercy
he hadn't sent her chiny nest eggs, and she _laughed_! If it had been
you, Mrs. Waddler, you'd have jawed good!"

Peace paused for breath. Mr. Strong and his adorable little wife were
her idols, and she could not bear to hear them slandered in any way, but
she had forgotten herself, her manners, everything, in the defense of
her friends; and now, realizing how rude she had been to one of these
women confronting her, she dropped her head in shamed silence, and
nervously twisted the skirt of her coat about her trembling hands,
waiting for the lecture she felt that she deserved.

To her surprise, none came; but after an awkward pause, during which
both women were doing some hard thinking, Mrs. Wardlaw said humbly,
"Wouldn't you like to go to Martindale with us some day next week and
help us select material for Mrs. Strong's new suit? Maybe you would know
what she likes better than we do, Peace."

Peace's eyes shone with delight, but she answered mournfully, "I can't,
I am afraid, 'cause there's school every day but Saturday, and that's
our Sunshine Club afternoon. I know what she likes best, though. I asked
her once what kind of cloth made the prettiest suit, and she said she
thought longcloth did--navy blue longcloth."

"She means broadcloth," murmured Mrs. Bainbridge under her breath.

"Of course," smiled Mrs. Wardlaw amiably. "So you think navy blue is
what she would prefer?"

"Yes, she likes blue, and it just matches her eyes. Hasn't she got the
bluest eyes and the goldest hair? Just like Hope's and Allee's. A silk
waist would be nice, too. She never had but one in her life."

At this juncture a head was thrust through the hall door and an
imperative voice called, "Mrs. Bainbridge, the children have come back
just loaded down with greens. Come show us where you want them and we'll
hang them before supper time."




CHAPTER VIII

A MYSTERIOUS SANTA CLAUS


"Merry Christmas, Gail, Faith, Hope, Charity, Allee! Merry Christmas,
everyone! My stocking has _something_ in it, I can see from here. Wake
up! Wake up! I want to look at my presents!"

A drop of something hot struck the tip of Gail's nose, and she opened
her sleepy eyes to find a white-robed, shivering figure shaking her
vigorously with one hand, while in the other was a tiny, flickering
candle, which dribbled hot wax prodigally as it was tipped about with
reckless abandon by the excited pleader.

"What are you doing with that lighted candle?" demanded Gail, digging
the wax off her nose and dodging another drop. "Put it out before you
set the house on fire. It isn't morning yet. It can't be! I have hardly
slept at all."

"The clock struck a long time ago," insisted Peace with chattering
teeth, "and I counted much as five."

"Five o'clock!" protested Gail. "Oh, surely not! Well, if it is that
time, I suppose you can get up. Seems awfully quiet for that hour,
though." The older sister began the process of dressing, and in a few
moments all six girls were gathered around the roaring fire in the
kitchen, excitedly examining the contents of their stockings, which Gail
had painstakingly filled with homemade gifts and a little cheap candy
from the village store,--her one Christmas extravagance.

"Mittens!" cried Peace, investigating the first package her excited hand
drew forth. "You knit them, didn't you, Gail? I saw Mrs. Grinnell
teaching you how. Mine are red. Have you got some, Cherry?"

"Yes, blue; and Allee's are pink. Aren't they pretty?"

"Just see my lovely knit slippers," cried Hope, throwing her arms about
Gail's neck and hugging her with a vim. "Where did you get all the yarn,
sister?"

"I found a lot in the attic," replied the oldest girl, smiling happily
at the children's appreciation of her labor; but she did not explain
that a gorgeous, moth-eaten, old afghan had been raveled to provide all
those pretty things.

"What is in your stocking, Faith?"

The girl held up a dainty white waist, but said never a word, for she
recognized that Gail's patient fingers had re-fashioned for her one of
the dear mother's hoarded treasures, and her heart was too full for
utterance.

"I've got some handkerchiefs," called Peace again, "and a ribbon--if I
only had some hair to tie with it! It's too wide for a band, and that's
all I can wear--here's an apple, a penwiper and some candy. You've got
pretty nearly the same c'lection, haven't you, Cherry, and so have Hope
and Allee. I wonder how Mrs. Grinnell happened to give me a hair-ribbon
when she knows that my hair ain't long enough to tie back."

"How do you know Mrs. Grinnell gave it to you?" demanded Gail, too
astonished to reprove her.

"I was in there one day when she had been to Martindale, and the ribbons
happened to be on the table all unwrapped. This was one of them. Now,
Gail, see what Santa Claus has brought you. There's at least one thing,
'cause--"

Cherry clapped her hand over her younger sister's mouth, and began to
giggle. So did Gail, when she drew forth from her stocking a bulky
potato pig with toothpicks for legs, match-heads for eyes and a dry
woodbine tendril for a tail.

"Who in the world made that?" she laughed, tears close to the surface,
for she had expected nothing this Christmas day.

"Mr. Strong," gulped Peace, dancing with delight at her sister's evident
surprise. "Look at his back! We put a saddle on the old porker. Isn't
that cute? It's a spandy new dollar with this year's date on it. See?"

Gail turned the curious animal over, and sure enough, there was a
bright, shining Goddess of Liberty, skilfully sunk in the pig's potato
back.

Swallowing back the lump in her throat, which threatened to choke her,
Gail whispered, "Where did you get it, dear? The money, I mean."

"We took up a c'lection," was the startling answer.

"A collection!" echoed Gail.

"Yes. You know last Sunday was Home Mission day, and the money was to be
sent to poor ministers' families on the pioneer--"

"You mean frontier," corrected Hope.

"Well, whatever ear it was," continued Peace, serenely; "and that made
me wonder why folks never took up c'lections for poor ministers'
families right here among them. I asked Mr. Strong about it, and he said
we would take up another c'lection straight away, and buy a Christmas
present for a 'hero minister's hero mother-daughter.' He made me learn
those words; and we got a dollar in ten cent pieces without half trying.
I 'spect we could have raised a fortune if we'd had more time, but this
was on our way home from school yesterday. We couldn't find anything
pretty enough to buy here at the village, and it was too late to go to
Martindale for it, so we changed the dimes into a dollar and put it in
the potato pig. He said it ought to be a shining white angel, but I told
him right away that we had angels enough in this family already, and he
better make a horse. That is what he tried to do, but it looked so much
like a pig when he got done that I pulled off the string tail and mane
and put on a pig's tail, and he said it did look better. You are to use
the money for your very own self and--"

The clock began to strike. One--two--That was all.

"Mercy me!" ejaculated Peace, staring at the accusing faces of her
sisters. "I truly did hear that clock strike as much as five a long time
ago."

"No doubt you did," laughed sunny Hope. "It struck midnight and you woke
up in the middle of the count."

"Let's go back to bed," suggested Gail, anxious to be alone with her
tumultuous thoughts; and to her surprise no dissenting voice was raised,
although as she crept once more beneath the covers of her cot, she heard
Peace say decidedly, "I sha'n't take off _my_ clothes again. Once a day
is enough for any _huming_ being to dress. Do you s'pose Santa will come
again while we sleep?"

It was daylight before they woke from their second nap, and as Peace
flew out of bed once more, she cried in delight, "Oh, it's snowing
again! Now it will seem like Christmas sure! Let's clean off the walks
before breakfast. Gail won't let us eat our candy yet."

She made short work of her toilette, threw on her wraps and was out of
doors almost before Cherry had opened her eyes; but the next moment she
came stumbling back into the house with the wild yell "Girls, girls,
Santa Claus did come again, and left a tre-men-jus big mince pie on the
porch--I picked a teenty hole in the top to see for sure if 'twas
mincemeat--and a bundle of something else. Hurry up, I can't wait to
open it! Oh, the paper fell off, and it's shoes--tennis slippers in the
winter! Think of it! That is worse than Mrs. Grinnell's hair-ribbon,
ain't it?"

"Peace!" cried Gail in shocked tones, entering the kitchen with the rest
of the family at her heels. "You should be _grateful_ for the presents
people give you and not poke fun at them."

"I am grateful, Gail, truly. I ain't poking fun at them, honest, though
they _are_ funny presents for this time of the year. I s'pose, maybe, my
hair will get long enough for a ribbon sometime, though Mrs. Strong says
it is too curly to grow fast. And when summer comes, we can wear these
slippers, if they aren't too small. They look awful little already.
These are marked for Allee, and here are mine, and those are Cherry's.
There aren't any for the rest of you. I s'pose the pie is for you.
You're lucky. I would rather have the pie than the shoes."

"Oh, Peace!"

"Well, wouldn't you? There is someone at the front door."

Gail disappeared through the hall to answer the knock, and Peace, with
her new shoes in her hand, slipped out of the kitchen door. "Just as I
thought," she muttered to herself. "Mr. Hardman brought them over. He
thinks they will make up for that money he never paid us last summer,
but they won't. He can just have his old shoes right back again!"

Out to the barn she marched, hunted up a scrap of paper and a pencil
left there for just such emergencies, laboriously scribbled a note,
which she tied to the slippers, and deposited the bundle on the Hartman
steps, where he found it when he came out to sweep paths. "Well, I
swan," he exclaimed, half in anger, half amused, as he picked tip the
rejected shoes, "if she hasn't trotted them slippers back! Peace, of
course. Let's see what she says." Carefully he untied the little slip
and read:

     "Here are your shoes. Im greatful but this is the rong seesun for
     them. By summer they will be to small as they aint very big now. Ive
     got over wanting tenis shoes anyhow. The muny you owe us would have
     come in handier. Peace Greenfield."

He tucked the note in his pocket, dropped the shoes on the kitchen
mantle, and went chuckling about his morning work. Hardly had he
finished his numerous tasks, when he was surprised to see Peace coming
slowly up the path, with eyes down-cast and face an uncomfortable red.
She knocked lightly, as if hoping no one would hear, and looked
disappointed when he opened the door.

"Merry Christmas, Peace. Come in, come right in," he said cordially,
his eyes gleaming with, amusement. "What can I do for you this morning?"

"Give me back the shoes I left on your porch," she answered, in tones so
low he could hardly hear. "Gail said I must come over and get them and
ipologize for being so rude. She says it is very rude to return
Christmas presents like that. If you meant them for a present, why,
that's different; but I thought likely it was our pay for picking
strawberries last summer. Now, which was it, a present or our pay?" The
old, independent, confident spirit asserted itself once more in the
little breast, and Peace raised her eyes to his with disconcerting
frankness.

"Well, well," stammered the man, hardly knowing what to say. "Suppose
they are a Christmas present, will you accept and wear 'em?"

"When it comes summer time, if I haven't outgrown them. My feet are
getting big fast."

"But if they are in pay for the strawberry picking, you won't take them?
Is that it?"

"I s'pose I will have to take them after Gail's lecture," Peace sighed
dismally, "but I'll never put 'em on--never!"

Delighted with her candor and rebel spirit, he said, after a brief
pause, "Well, now, I mean them for a Christmas present, Peace, and I'd
like mighty well for you to wear them. If they are too small, come next
summer, I will get them changed for you. Will you take them?"

"Y--e--s."

"And be friends?"

Peace hesitated. "Friends are square with each other, ain't they?"

"I reckon they are."

"Then I don't see how we can be friends," she said firmly.

"Why not?" His face was blank with surprise; and his wife, who had been
a silent spectator of the scene, laughed outright.

"'Cause you owe us a dollar and a half for picking strawberries last
summer, and if you don't pay it, you ain't square with us, are you?"

"Well, I swan!" he mumbled. Then he, too, laughed, and thrusting his
hand into his pocket, drew out a handful of silver. "Here are six silver
quarters, a dollar and fifty cents. That settles our account, doesn't
it?"

"Yes."

"And I've treated you on the square?"

"Yes."

"And you will come sit on my lap?"

"I don't s'pose it will do any hurt," she answered grudgingly, for she
had not yet adjusted herself to this new friendship with her one-time
enemy, but she went to him slowly and permitted to lift her to his knee.

"There, now," he said, settling her comfortably. "That's more like it!
Now that I have settled my account with you, tell me what you are going
to do about the money you owe me?"

"Dave!" interposed little Mrs. Hartman, but he laughingly waved her
aside.

"What money that I owe you?" gasped poor Peace, the rosy color dying
from her face.

"Didn't you dump twenty boxes of my strawberries into the chicken yard
last summer?"

"Y--e--s."

"Those berries sold for twenty cents a box. Twenty times twenty is four
dollars. You spoiled four dollars' worth of berries, Peace Greenfield.
Are you being square with me?"

The child sat dumb with despair, and seeing the tragedy in the great,
brown eyes, Mrs. Hartman again said, remonstratingly, "Dave!"

"Hush, Myra Ann," he commanded. "This is between Peace and me. If we are
to be friends, we must be square with each other, you know."

There was a desperate struggle, and then Peace laid the shining quarters
back in his hand, saying bravely, "Here's my first payment. I haven't
the rest now, but if you will wait until I earn it, I'll pay it all
back. I will have Hope figure up just how much I owe you, so's I will
know for sure. Can you wait? Maybe you will let me pick strawberries
next summer until I get it paid up. Will you? 'Cause what money I get
this winter I'd like to give to Gail for a coat. She has to wear
Faith's jacket now whenever she goes anywhere, and, of course, two
people can't wear one coat at the same time."

"No, they can't," he answered soberly, with a suspicion of a tremble in
his voice. "Is that what you meant to do with this money?"

"Yes. Gail got a dollar for Christmas, and I thought this would 'most
make enough to buy a good coat for her. She needs one dreadfully."

Mr. Hartman slipped the money into the grimy fist again, cleared his
throat and then said, "Now, I've got a plan. You keep this dollar and
fifty cents for your work last summer, and when the strawberries are
ripe again, we'll see about your picking some more to pay for the
spoiled ones. Is that all right?"

"Yes," cried Peace, giving a delighted little jump. "You aren't near
bad, are you?"

"I hope not," he replied with a queer laugh. "Can you give me a kiss, do
you suppose?"

"If you will skin me a rabbit," she answered promptly.

"If I'll what?" he yelled in amazement, almost dropping her from his
lap.

"Skin me a rabbit. Winkum and Blinkum are starving to death--Faith says
so--and they really don't seem as fat as when Bryan gave them to me; so
if we can save them by eating them up, we better do it. Don't you think
so?"

"Well, now, that might be a good idea," he answered slowly, for he
regarded rabbits as a nuisance, and was not anxious to see any such
pests in his neighborhood. "Stewed rabbit makes a pretty good dish,
too."

"That's what I had heard. Will you skin them for me?"

"Yep, any time you say so."

"All right, I'll get them now and we will have them for dinner."

She was off like a flash before he could say another word, returning
almost immediately with the squirming rabbits in her apron, and he
dressed them carefully. By the time the long process was finished her
face was very sober, and she offered no objections when he claimed two
kisses instead of one as his reward, but gathering up the hapless
bunnies, she departed for home.

"Here's our Christmas dinner, Gail," she announced, dumping her burden
onto the cluttered kitchen table. "I wish it had been chicken, but Mr.
Hartman says stewed rabbit is real good."

"Where did you get these?" demanded Gail, surmising the truth.

"They are Winkum and Blinkum. Mr. Hartman undressed them for me. I got
my shoes back, and here's the strawberry money for your new coat, Gail."
As clearly as possible she made her explanations, and went away to put
up the tennis slippers, leaving dismayed Gail to face the unique
situation.

"What can I do?" she cried, almost in tears.

"Get yourself a new coat, if you can find one for the price," answered
Faith, listlessly scrubbing a panful of turnips for dinner.

"I don't mean the coat. I had scarcely thought of the money. I mean the
rabbits."

"Cook them! People eat rabbits."

"But these were pets."

"They are dead now. You might as well use them as to throw them away. We
have no turkey or chicken for dinner."

Gail shivered, but obediently cut up the rabbits and put them on the
stove to cook, mentally resolving not to eat a bite of them herself.

The morning hours flew rapidly by, the dinner was done at last, and the
hungry girls were scrambling into their chairs when Faith cried sharply,
"Hope, you have set seven plates!"

Instinctively each heart thought of the absent member, gone from them
since the last Christmas Day, and Gail reached over to remove the extra
dishes, when Hope stopped her by saying, "Teacher read us a beautiful
poem of how some people always set a place for the Christ Child on His
birthday, hoping that He would come in person to celebrate the day with
them, and I thought it was such a pretty idea that--I--I--"

"Yes, dear," said Gail gently. "We will leave the extra plate there."

"It does seem queer, doesn't it, that we have big dinners on Christmas
Day 'cause it is Christ's birthday, and then we never give Him a dish,"
observed Peace, passing her plate for a helping.

"Did the Christ Child come?" asked Allee eagerly. "In the story, I
mean."

"Not in the way they looked for Him," answered Hope. "But a little
beggar child came. Some of the family were going to send it out into the
kitchen to eat with the servants, but one little boy insisted that it
should have the empty chair they had set for the Christ Child. So the
ragged beggar was pushed up to the table and fed all he wanted. When the
dinner was over, a great shining light filled the room and Christ
appeared to tell them that in feeding the little beggar they had
entertained Him. It was all written out in rhyme and was _so_ pretty.
What is the matter, Gail? You aren't eating anything."

The other sisters paused to look at the older girl's plate, and Gail's
sensitive face flushed crimson, but before she could offer any
explanation, Peace abruptly dropped her knife and fork, pushed her
dishes from her, and burst into tears.

"Why, what ails you, child?" cried Faith, who herself had scarcely
touched the dinner before her.

"I can't be a _carnival_ and eat my bunnies," sobbed Peace. "I'd as soon
have a slab of kitten."

"That's just the way I feel," said Cherry, and no one laughed at Peace's
rendering of _cannibal_.

In the midst of this scene there was a knock at the kitchen door, but
before anyone could answer, Mrs. Grinnell rustled in, bearing in her
arms a huge platter of roast turkey, which she set down upon the table
with the remark, "It was that lonesome at home I just couldn't eat my
dinner all by myself, so I brought it over to see if you didn't want me
for company."

"You aren't a ragged beggar," Peace spoke up through her tears, before
the others had recovered from their surprise; "but I guess you'll do.
You can have the chair we set for Jesus."

Gail explained, while the platter of stewed rabbit was being removed,
and once more dinner was begun. The turkey was done to a turn, the
dressing was flavored just right and filled with walnuts and oysters,
the vegetables had never tasted better, the biscuits were as light as a
feather, Mrs. Strong's cranberry sauce had jelled perfectly, and the
Hartman mince-pie was a miracle of pastry. The seven diners did the meal
full justice, and when at last the appetites were satisfied, the table
looked as if a foraging party had descended upon it.

"That was quite a dinner," remarked Peace, as she pushed her chair back
from the table. "If I had just known it was going to happen, Mr. Hartman
needn't have skinned the rabbits. There is a whole platter full of
Winkum and Blinkum left, and it's all wasted. Mercy me, what a shame!"

She went out into the kitchen and surveyed the rejected delicacy with
mournful eyes. Then a new idea occurred to her, and, with no thought of
irreverence, she murmured to herself, "I don't believe the Christ Child
would have cared whether He had turkey or rabbit for dinner. I'm going
over and get that _passle_ of half-starved German kids to eat this up."

Throwing Gail's faded shawl over her head, she ran across the snowy
fields to the old tumble-down house on the next road, where the new
family lived. The children were at play in the yard--seven in all, and
none of them larger than Hope--but at sight of her they came forward
hand in hand, jabbering such queer gibberish that Peace could not
understand a word.

"Come over to my house and have some dinner," she invited them, but not
one of them moved a step. "We've got a whole platter of stewed rabbit,"
she urged, but they only stared uncomprehendingly. "Perhaps you have had
your dinner. Are you hungry?"

"Hungry," suddenly said the oldest boy, putting one hand to his mouth
and the other on his stomach. "Ja, sehr hungrig."

Peace was delighted with the pantomime method of making herself
understood, and imitating his motions, she pointed to the little brown
house and beckoned.

"Ja, ja," cried the chorus of seven, their faces beaming with pleasure,
"wir kommen." And they quickly followed her across the snow to the
kitchen door.

"Gail, I have brought the Christ Child," she announced, as she ushered
the ragged, hungry brood into the house. "I thought it was a pity to
waste all that salt and pepper you used in fixing up Winkum and Blinkum,
so I invited these ragged beggars over to eat it up."

Mrs. Grinnell gasped her surprise and consternation. Faith exclaimed
angrily, "Peace Greenfield!" But Gail, with never a chiding word, sprang
to the table and began clearing away the soiled dishes, while Hope ran
for clean plates; and in short order the seven little towheads were
hovering around the platter of stewed rabbit and creamed potatoes,
revelling in a feast such as they had never known before; nor did they
stop eating until every scrap of food had vanished. Then they rose,
bowing and smiling, and trying in their own tongue to thank their
hostesses for the grand dinner.

Peace was captivated with their quaint manners and reverent attitude,
and when they had backed out of the door, she went with them to the
gate, kissing her hand to them as they disappeared down the road, still
calling over their shoulders, "Du bist das Christkind!"

"I don't know what they are saying," she murmured, "but it makes me feel
like flapping my wings and crowing." She leaped to her tall gatepost to
give vent to her jubilant feelings, but tumbled quickly to the ground
again without stopping to crow. "Abigail Greenfield!" she shouted,
racing for the house. "See what was on the gatepost,--a nenvelope with
money in it, and on the outside it says, 'Christmas greetings to the Six
Sisters.' Now will you believe someone lost it? It ain't Mr. Strong's
writing, though. Maybe the Christ Child brought it. Oh, Gail, do you
s'pose He did?"




CHAPTER IX

FAITH'S AWAKENING


"Do you know where Faith is?" asked Gail one Saturday morning in early
spring, finding Hope busy at making the beds, which was the older
sister's work.

"She discovered a heap of old magazines somewhere about the place and is
in the barn reading. Says her head aches too hard to work today,"
answered Hope, with an anxious pucker in her usually serene forehead.

"I don't know what to do with that girl," sighed Gail, as she adjusted
her dustcap and picked up a broom. Her face looked so worried, and her
voice sounded so discouraged that Hope paused in her task of plumping up
the pillows to ask in alarm, "Do you think she is any worse than usual?"

"She gets worse every day," answered Gail, somewhat sharply, and two
tears rolled slowly down her pale cheeks.

"Oh, dearie, don't cry," coaxed Hope, dropping her pillows and throwing
her arms about the heaving shoulders. "It will be better pretty soon.
I'll do all of Faith's work. I only wish I were older."

Peace waited to hear no more. She had gone upstairs for a clean apron
before setting out for town with a basket of eggs and, unknown to the
two sisters in the room across the hall, had heard all they said.

"I didn't s'pose Faith was sick," she whispered with white lips as she
flew down the path to the gate, swinging the heavy basket dangerously
near the ground in her heedlessness. "I thought she was just lazy. She
never does anything but mope around the house and read or play the
organ, but I thought it was 'cause she didn't want to. S'posing she
should die! Then we'd have three angels. Oh, dear, I don't see why one
family should have so many! I wonder if there isn't something that will
cure her. Gail hasn't called the doctor yet. I am going to ask him
myself!"

She slipped through the gate and sped up the road toward town, still
musing over this new trouble, and so completely wrapped up in her
thoughts that she did not even see her beloved Mr. Strong until he
called to her, "Why, hello, Peace! Are you coming over to see our baby
today! Elizabeth, will be glad to have you."

Her face lighted up at sight of her friend, but she shook her head at
his invitation, and soberly replied, as she hurried on, "I'd like to,
but I can't this time. I must take these eggs to the doctor's house.
Some other day I'll come and play with Baby Glen."

Not to stop to discuss the welfare of the precious new baby at the
parsonage was very strange for Peace, for she loved the beautiful boy as
much as she did his parents, and was always eager to hear of his latest
tricks, no matter how pressed for time she might be. But today she was
too worried to think of even little Glen.

Breathlessly she climbed the steps to Dr. Bainbridge's big house, just
as the busy physician appeared in the doorway ready for his round of
calls, and in her eagerness to stop him before he should climb into the
waiting carriage, she quickened her pace to a run, tripped on the door
mat, and tumbled headlong, eggs and all, into a drift of half-melted
snow in the corner of the porch, announcing in tragic tones, "Dr. Eggs,
I have brought you some Bainbridge, and here they are all spilled in the
snow. It's lucky you aren't a very neat man, for if you had cleared off
your porches the way you ought to, these eggs would likely have been
everyone smashed. As 'tis, there is only one broken, and one more
cracked. I'll bring another--"

"Are you hurt?" the doctor managed to stutter in an almost inaudible
voice, so overcome with surprise was he at the avalanche of eggs and
explanation.

"No, and only two of the eggs are, either--Oh, don't go yet!" She
scrambled hastily to her feet and laid a trembling, detaining hand on
his coat sleeve, as she demanded in a shaky voice, "Is Faith real bad,
do you think?"

"If people had more faith--" he began jestingly; then stopped, seeing
the real anxiety in the serious brown eyes, and asked gently, "What is
troubling you, child?"

"Faith, as usual. What is the matter with her? Gail cried about her this
morning, and Hope said maybe she would get better pretty soon. They
didn't know I heard. Is she real sick? I thought she didn't do any work
'cause she was lazy--I mean 'cause she didn't want to. I didn't know she
was sick. What d'sease has she got?"

"Well, as near as I can make out," answered the doctor gravely, "she has
a case of acute imagination. She thinks she is mourning, but she is too
selfishly wrapped up in her own grief to see the sorrow of others. She
has stepped out from under the burden of the home and let its full
weight fall upon shoulders too slender to bear it. The sun doesn't shine
for her any more, the birds don't sing, the flowers have lost their
fragrance. What she needs is a good dose of common sense, but we don't
seem to be able to administer it. If only we could put a cannon cracker
under her chair, maybe it would rouse her. Oh, I was just speaking
figuratively; I didn't mean the real article," he hastened to assure his
small audience, as a gasp of horror escaped her.

The doctor had waxed eloquent in his diagnosis of the case, and though
Peace failed to understand half that he said, the grave, almost harsh
look about his mouth and eyes struck terror to her heart, and she
faintly faltered, "Is--do you think Faith will be an angel soon?"

He looked at her in amazement. "No!" he thundered, and she shivered at
his tone. "It will take ages to make an angel of Faith if she keeps on
in the way she is going. Gail is the angel if ever there was one, and
Hope's wings have sprouted, too--"

"Oh," moaned Peace, with wide, terrified eyes, "I don't want Gail and
Hope to be angels! We need them here! We could spare Faith easier than
them. Oh, Dr. Bainbridge, ain't two angels enough for one family?"

The kindly old doctor suddenly understood, and patting the little hood,
covered with bits of eggshell and particles of ice, he said
remorsefully, "There, there, honey, I didn't mean that kind of angels! I
mean just dear, good, blessed girls, such as make the world better for
having been in it. There is no danger of their flying away to the other
land just yet, my child; though goodness only knows what will become of
Gail if Faith isn't waked up soon. I must go call on my sick folks now,
little girl. I'd drive you home if I were going that way, but I am due
this very minute at the opposite end of town. Don't you fret, but be an
awfully good girl yourself and help Gail all you can. When Faith comes
to her senses and goes to work at something, she will be all right."

They parted, and Peace slowly wended her way home again, somewhat
relieved, and yet considerably alarmed over the doctor's words. Down to
the barn she wandered, and up the rickety ladder she climbed into the
cobwebby loft. A figure moved impatiently at the far end of the loose
boards, and as Peace's eyes became accustomed to the dim light, she saw
it was Faith, curled up among a lot of ragged papers and coverless
magazines, musty and yellow with age.

"What are you ba--crying about!" asked Peace in awed tones, as the other
girl sniffed suspiciously and then wiped her eyes, already red with
weeping. She expected to be told to mind her business, but contrary to
her expectations, Faith answered:

"This is the _saddest_ story,--all about a girl who loved one man and
had to marry another."

Peace's nose curled scornfully, and she said, with great contempt, "I
don't see any use in bawl--crying about that. Those story people never
lived. Real folks have more sense."

But Faith had gone back to her magazine of sorrows, and never even heard
this small sister's criticism. So Peace dropped down on a heap of
sacking, propped her chin up with her elbows on her knees, and fell to
studying the face opposite her, noting with alarm how thin it had grown,
and how darkly circled were the brown eyes so like her own. Fear lest
Dr. Bainbridge did not know how ill she really was gripped her heart,
and she sighed heavily just as Faith finished her chapter and roused to
search for the next number of the magazine.

"What is the matter?" she demanded, looking at the sober little face
with surprise.

"Are you sick?" asked Peace in an awestruck whisper, ignoring her
sister's question.

"No. Why? My head aches some, but that is all."

"I sh'd think it _would_ ache," cried the child in sudden indignation.
"Why did you poke up here where there ain't any window to read by?
You'll be blind some day if you _amuse_ your eyes like that. Teacher
said so to all our class the day she found Tessie Hunt reading on the
basement stairs. If you've got to read all the time, why don't you go
out-doors or by a window? It's enough to make anyone's head ache the way
you mope around reading all the time. Dr. Bainbridge says as soon as you
get up and go to work you'll be all right."

Faith's face flushed angrily and she demanded, with some heat, "What do
you know about what Dr. Bainbridge says?"

"I asked him a-purpose to see whether you were going to be an angel
soon."

For a moment Faith was too startled for reply, and then she asked
curiously, with a queer flutter in her heart, "What did he say!"

"He just howled, 'No--o!' as loud as he could shout, and after that he
said, more quiet-like, that you'd never be an angel as long as you kept
on the way you are going. He says you need a good, common dose of sense
and a cannon under your chair. He said Gail and Hope are the angels, and
when I cried and told him we could spare you easier'n we could them, he
said that he didn't mean sure-enough angels which fly away and never
come back, but good, _sensitive_ blessings that make the world better.
He says you've got a _cute minagination_, and when you wake up and help
Gail bear the slender burden on your shoulders, everything will be all
right."

Profound silence reigned in the barn for what seemed an eternity to
Peace, and then Faith burst forth hotly, "I never saw such a meddlesome
child in all my born days, Peace Greenfield! What did you tell the
doctor? Why did you chase to him in the first place? Do you want to get
the whole neighborhood to gossiping about our affairs? I suppose you
gave him the whole family history, from the time of Adam."

"I never did!" Peace indignantly denied. "I don't know of any Adam 'mong
our relations. I found Gail upstairs crying about you this morning, and
Hope promised to do all your work. I couldn't see why Hope should do
your work unless you were going to be an angel, so I went to the doctor
about it, and that is why he told me. He said we must help Gail all we
could--"

"Why don't you, then, instead of causing her trouble whenever you turn
around? You are into something the whole time to fret and worry her.
Don't talk about me until you are perfect yourself!"

"I ain't perfect, but I _try_ to help, and you know it. Don't I help
Cherry with the dishes every single day, and dust the parlor and bring
in wood, and hasn't Hope turned over setting the table to me?"

"And don't you break half the dishes?"

"I've broken only one plate and three cups, and I bought new ones out of
my snow money, so there! When summer comes I'm going to pick
strawberries for Mr. Hartman, and when I've paid up for those I spoiled
last year, I'm going to give the rest of the money I earn to Gail to
help her all I can. 'F I could make the lovely cakes you do, I'd go
'round the streets peddling them."

"If you were I, you'd do wonders," Faith broke in bitterly.

"Well, Mrs. Abbott told me herself that if the village baker could cook
like that she would get all her delicate things there instead of
bothering the girl with them, 'cause, in a little subu'b like this, she
can't get a cook and a second girl to stay at the same time, and a
common hired girl doesn't know beans about cakes and nice cookery. Mrs.
Lacy said she'd take a cake reg'lar every week if she could get such
nice ones as yours; and the butcher--guess what the butcher asked me
yesterday! I went in his shop on my way home from the minister's, and he
asked me when we were going to break up housekeeping here."

"What did you say?" cried Faith, as the meaning of his question dawned
upon her, though Peace evidently had not understood.

"I didn't know what he was driving at, so I asked him, and he said he
had heard that we were going to leave this house and go to live with
different people in town. He wanted to know if he could have Cherry,
'cause he thinks she is so pretty. I told him he needn't joke with me
like that, but he just laughed and _in_sured me that Mr. Strong was
going to take Allee, and Dr. Bainbridge wanted Hope, and that you and
Gail were to work in Martindale, and I was the broom of condemnation."

"The what?" cried Faith in amazement.

"The broom of con-dem-nation," repeated Peace slowly, seeing that she
had made a blunder, but not understanding just wherein it lay. "It means
when a lot of people want the same thing."

"Perhaps you are trying to say 'bone of contention,'" suggested Faith,
somewhat sarcastically.

"Maybe 'twas. Anyway, he says Mr. Hardman wants me--but I don't want
him, I can tell you that!"

"I thought you had signed a treaty of peace and were friends now,"
murmured the older girl, considerably amused at the child's belligerent
attitude, in spite of her troubled thoughts.

"Oh, we are friends all right, but not bad enough so's I want to go live
with him. Though I don't know as it would be any worse there than with
Judge Abbott, and he's the other fellow who wants me. My, the way he
glared at me Thanksgiving morning, when we shoveled the snow off his
porch, scared me stiff! I thought he was going to make us shovel it back
on again, but he didn't. And the time my snowball knocked Hector's teeth
loose, I was sure he was going to 'rest me, but I couldn't help if Hec
opened his mouth just in time to get that ball; and anyway, he deserved
it, 'cause he was pulling Mamie Brady's red hair and calling her Carrots
till she cried. I told the Judge that Hec needed to have more than just
his teeth knocked loose, and he laughed and marched him home by the
ear."

"Peace, have you told Gail this?"

"About Hec's teeth?"

"No, about what Mr. Jones said to you?"

"Not yet. I didn't think it was a very nice joke, so I never told anyone
but you and the preacher. Mr. Strong said he'd see that the butcher
didn't tease me any more."

"Well, if I were you, I would forget all about it, but don't ever tell
Gail. She might take it in earnest and feel badly about it."

Peace eyed the older girl, as if trying to fathom her meaning, but
Faith's face was like a mask, and after a brief pause, the child
answered, "I don't mean to; but ain't I glad she can't guess all my
thinks! Just s'posing everyone knew what everyone else was thinking,
wouldn't some folks be scrapping all the time? Brains are queer things.
I used to wish I could see one when it was doing its thinking, but I
guess God knew his business when he put them inside our heads, where no
one else can watch them."

"Peace, Peace! Where are you?" called an excited voice from below, and
the brown-eyed philosopher jumped up from her burlap couch with the
shout, "Coming, Allee! I hope you find your senses pretty soon, Faith,
for the doctor says when that happens you will be all right and not have
any more headache."

The faded red coat disappeared down the ladder, and Faith was left alone
again. But she read no more. The sad story had lost its interest, and
she cast aside the magazines without another glance. Was what Mr. Jones
had told Peace true? Was there a possibility that the home must be
broken up? Was the doctor right in his verdict? Did all the sisters feel
that she could be spared the easiest? That was a fierce battle Faith
waged with herself in the barn, but when it was ended a
determined-faced girl rose from the dusty floor, descended the old
ladder, and hurried away toward the village. It was noon before she
returned, and the five sisters, anxious over her unusual absence, were
just sitting down to a frugal dinner of mush and milk when she entered
the door, looking excited and queer, but with a happier light in her
eyes than had been there for months.

The minute grace was said, Peace demanded suspiciously, "Where have you
been all this time?"

"Drumming up trade," was the startling answer. "I've got six regular
cake customers, and several who promised to buy of me when they needed
anything in my line."

Faith was awake at last.




CHAPTER X

COMPANY FOR SUPPER


"Cherry, do you know it's 'most night, and those girls aren't at home
yet? They said they'd sure be here by four o'clock, and here 'tis five
and they haven't come." Peace was plainly worried, and with a
half-impatient sigh, Cherry closed her fascinating story book and joined
her sister watching at the window for the belated girls who had gone in
town with Mrs. Grinnell that morning.

"P'r'aps the horse run away," suggested Allee.

"They were coming back on the car, 'cause Mrs. Grinnell was to stay all
night with her relations."

"Then maybe the car run off the track."

"That's just what I've been thinking. S'posing they don't come home
tonight! What will we do for supper?"

"Hope will get some when she comes home from Edwards'."

"This is the day she stays so late. She won't get home until Mr. Edwards
brings her, at almost bedtime."

"Can't we help ourselves?"

"'Course, if we wanted to, but that won't be supper for Gail and Faith
when they get home all tired out."

"Well, then, can't we _cook_ a supper?"

"What?"

"Why--potatoes and--"

"Eggs, I s'pose you'll say. I'm tired of eggs. If we don't stop having
them so often, we will all turn into Humpty-Dumpties. S'posing we were
eggs and had to walk and act _so_ careful or else get smashed.
'Twouldn't take long to finish me, would it? I don't want eggs for
supper. Let's have rice."

"Is there any?"

"A whole sackful."

"Do you know how to cook it?"

"Why, in water, of course, just like mush or oatmeal, only it takes
longer to get soft."

"Then maybe we better put it on to boil now. How much shall we cook?"

"I don't know as I ever saw Gail measure it She just guesses at it; but
I think we could each eat a big cupful, don't you?"

"I'm hungry enough to eat two cupsful," said Allee.

"P'r'aps 'twould be better to cook two for each of us. It's good cold,
s'posing we shouldn't eat it all tonight."

"Maybe that would be best," conceded Cherry; and the three embryo cooks
repaired to the kitchen to get supper ready.

"There is the rice and here is a cup. Hold the pan,
Cherry, while I measure it out.
One--two--three--four--five--six--seven--eight--nine--that makes a big
hole in that bagful, doesn't it? Maybe nine will be enough. Do you think
so?"

"Yes," hesitated Cherry; "and besides, Hope won't be here for supper."

"That's right! Then nine will be enough. Now we'll pour in the
water,--lots, 'cause it boils away in cooking."

"If Gail doesn't get here soon, how will we get any milk for our rice?"
asked Allee, watching them. "Bossy hasn't been milked yet."

Peace paused on her way to the stove with the heavy saucepan. "Why
didn't we think of that before? Rice isn't good without plenty of milk
and sugar. I don't like molasses on it."

"Nor I," shivered Cherry.

"Let's milk the cow ourselves," suggested the daring spirit.

"We don't know how," protested the cautious one.

"Oh, that's easy! I've watched Gail lots of times, and all she does is
pull hard like the janitor pulls the rope that rings the church bell.
We've both of us rung that bell, Cherry. I'll do it if you are afraid."

"I'm not afraid," Cherry declared, "but I don't think I know how. I'll
watch you and see how you do it first."

"Come on, then!"

Away to the barn they hurried, and the process of milking began, with
Peace astride the stool. But somehow Bossy resented being pulled like a
bell-rope and the milk didn't come.

"I don't see what is the matter," cried Peace impatiently, after a few
moments' struggle. "Bossy never acts so with Gail. She has kicked me
twice already, and here we are clear out of her stall. Allee, you hold
her tail, she has slapped me in the face with it till I'm tired. Whoa,
Boss, stand still! Maybe I don't jerk hard enough."

Peace settled herself once more on the stool, righted the pail and gave
a tremendous pull at two of the teats. There was a surprised moo from
Bossy, her heels flew into the air, Peace was thrown backward from her
seat, the pail whirled across the floor, and Bossy rushed out of the
barn door, dragging little, tenacious Allee after her. Cherry screamed,
Peace scrambled to her feet and raced madly after the terrified beast,
shouting at the top of her lungs, "Let go, Allee! Whoa, Bossy!"

Allee let go, but Bossy did not whoa until, with a wild plunge, she
lurched against the stone watering trough, groaned and lay down with one
leg doubled under her.

"Oh, she's broken her leg!" yelled Cherry, dancing up and down in
fright. "What shall we do, what shall we do?"

"Go into the house and see that the rice doesn't burn while I'm gone,"
commanded Peace, after a hasty look at poor Bossy's leg, to make sure it
was really broken; and away she flew up the street toward the village,
muttering to herself, "Maybe he has closed his shop, though it isn't
quite time, but I hope not. No, he hasn't, for there comes the doctor
out of the door. Oh, Mr. Jones, what will you give for a cow, a
broken-legged cow? I didn't stick her, 'cause I wasn't sure just how to
do it, but her leg is just freshly broken, so she is good for meat. You
bought Mr. Hartman's heifer when she broke her neck. Bossy's an awful
nice cow, and we hate to lose her, but of course we'll have to kill her
now. Bring your butcher knife and run! I don't want her to feel bad any
longer'n she has to."

"Hold your horses, Whirlwind, hold your horses a bit," cried the amazed
butcher. "Now tell me what has happened."

"You grab that knife and come along!" she shouted, almost frantic with
grief and fear. "That cow can't be left with a broken leg." And seizing
him by the hand she dragged him toward the door. The sight of the
child's great distress touched the big man, and pausing only long enough
to close his shop, he followed her flying feet down the road to the
little brown house where poor Bossy lay.

"There she is! Ain't her leg broken?"

"Yes, and a bad break, too. She will have to go, kidlet. It's a shame,
for she's a mighty fine looking critter. I'll give you fifteen dollars
for her. Where is your oldest sister?"

"In Martindale. Oh, don't wait for her to come back! I can't bear to
have Bossy look at me like that! I broke her leg trying to milk her.
She's worth a lot more'n fifteen dollars alive, but as meat I s'pose
we'll have to let her go cheap. You can have her. Gail would say so too,
if she was here. Give me the money and then stick her as soon as I get
inside the house."

The butcher hesitated, then counted out fifteen dollars in bills and
handed them to the trembling, grief-stricken Peace, saying, "You
couldn't get any more for her in the city, under the circumstances, I
know. Butchers don't ordinarily buy milch cows for beef, and I shouldn't
take her if she wasn't in first-class condition. If Gail ain't
satisfied, send her up to the shop."

Peace snatched the bills with shaking hands and disappeared up the path,
calling back over her shoulder, "Stick her easy, Mr. Jones, and quick!
I'm going upstairs and cry."

But she didn't carry out her intention, for as she flung open the
kitchen door, the pungent odor of something burning greeted her
nostrils, and there stood Cherry beside the red-hot stove, dipping rice
from one big saucepan into other kettles which Allee was bringing out of
the pantry for her.

"Oh, Peace," she cried in relief, "I don't know what we will ever do
with all this rice! It's sticking faster than I can scratch it up, it's
boiled over the stove three times, and I've filled up four pans already.
Give me another, Allee!"

"It needs some more water," said Peace, catching up a dipper of cold
water and pouring it into one sizzling pot. "Mercy, how it has grown
since we put it on to cook! That kettleful won't burn now."

"But it has turned yellow and smells dreadfully smoky," answered Cherry,
sniffing at the discolored, unappetizing mess in the pan.

Peace examined it critically, tasted it, made a wry face, and finally
announced, "It's spoiled, I guess. Never mind, there is plenty of good
rice left--"

"Oh, Peace!" yelled Allee excitedly, dancing in the chair, where she
stood trying to stir the heavy contents of another pan. "Something else
is burning, sure! See the black smoke!"

There was a knock at the door, but Peace was frantically tugging at the
big kettle stuck fast to the stove cover, and without pausing in her
task, she called crossly, "You will have to wait till we can get this
rice 'tended to before we can see what you want, whoever you are. We are
all busy in here."

There was an audible chuckle from without, the knob turned, Cherry
screamed, and a gray-haired, shabby, old man stood smiling at them from
the steps. Peace scarcely looked at him as she succeeded in freeing the
panful of smoking, blackened rice from the cover, but that quick glance
had told her the visitor was a tramp, and she snapped sharply, "I s'pose
you want a bite to eat. Well, I don't see how you are going to get it
here! I've just killed the cow, and the rice has burned up. Cherry, stop
stirring that mess and take it off! Can't you see it's smoking like a
_chimbly_?"

The tramp strode across the room, grabbed the teakettle and poured the
boiling water into the pan, over which Allee had mounted guard, and
which fortunately was on the back of the stove so it had not yet arrived
at the burning point. He caught up one other, dumped about half its
contents into a clean saucepan on the hearth, saturated it with water,
threw in some salt, and set it back on the stove, at the same time
removing a third kettle of burning rice and carrying it out of doors.

"There!" he said, entering the kitchen again. "All the rice isn't
spoiled. Now we will open the windows and let out this smoke, and we are
all right. How did you come to cook so much?"

"We were hungry, and thought we could eat a lot--"

"But rice swells--"

"We have found that out for ourselves," said Peace, blushing furiously
at his quizzical grin. "It's the first time we ever cooked it alone."

"Where are the sisters?"

"Gail and Faith are in the city, and Hope hasn't come home from Edwards'
house yet."

"And you are hungry? Well, now, that is too bad. I'll tell you what I
will do. You show me where you keep things and I will get supper, if you
will permit me to share it with you. Tramps have to work here, you
know--"

"Oh, Mr. Tramp! You are my tramp that broke the raw egg all over your
potato, aren't you?" cried Peace with undisguised joy. "And you never
stole that cake, did you?"

"What cake, child?"

"The one Faith was baking the morning you ate breakfast here 'bout a
year ago."

"I never stole a cake in my life,--or anything else."

"There, I knew it! I told them so at the time. Was it--have you lost any
money around here?"

"Money?" he echoed, his face the picture of innocence, as he deftly set
the table and beat up an omelette. "I should say not! Why?"

"'Cause we found some on the gatepost the night you were here, and I
thought maybe you had lost it. No, I didn't think so, either. Gail
thought you might have lost it." Into his ears she poured the whole
story of the long, hard year.

"And so you thought,--or Gail thought I had lost the money you found on
the gatepost! Well, don't you think it would be a funny tramp who would
have all that money with him!"

Peace's face fell, and she slowly admitted, "Yes, I s'pose it would, but
I thought maybe you might be a story-book prince. Those things _always_
happen in books. But Gail won't use the money, 'cause she says someone
might come along and claim it some day. When mamma was a little girl
there was a queer old man lived in her town that people called crazy. He
used to give pretty things to the children and then months later he'd go
around and c'llect them and give them to someone else. Maybe that's the
kind of a man who leaves the money on the gatepost. It has happened
twice there, and once in the barn. Gail says we can't tell, and 'twould
be terrible embracing"--she meant embarrassing--"if he should try to
c'llect after we had spent the money."

"That's a fact," agreed the tramp, "but I think she could spend the
money without any such fears, because I think the fairies brought it."

"Do you b'lieve in fairies?" cried Peace in shocked surprise.

"Oh, yes, and I always shall. I don't think the fairies fly around like
butterflies, the way they are pictured in books. I believe they live in
the hearts of men."

"Then how could they bring money and pin it to the gatepost and grain
sacks? They use sure-enough, every-day pins."

"Oh, maybe they whisper to some good friend that a little extra money
would make things easier at the brown house, or the green one, or the
gray one, and this friend, who has lots of money to spare--"

"That's just the way I thought it all out," interrupted Peace eagerly.
"But Mr. Strong hasn't lots of spare money. He is a minister, and they
never have enough for themselves. Besides, he crossed his heart that he
didn't know who put it there. The Dunbars aren't rich. Miss Truesdale
can't afford it. Even Mrs. Grinnell couldn't do it. Judge Abbott has
lots of money, but folks have to work for what they get out of him, and
old Skinflint is so stingy that he _borrows_ the city papers so's he
won't have to buy them himself. Hec Abbott told me so. I can't think of
a single soul who would give us the money."

"Maybe this is a friend whom you don't know."

"That's it, I guess. But I'd _like_ awfully well to know them, and
'specially whether we can really use the money for ourselves. Now that
Bossy is gone, I don't know what we are going to do for milk. Mr. Jones
paid fifteen dollars for her, but that won't buy a whole new one."

"I think I know where you can get a fine cow for fifteen dollars. If you
will give me the money I will call around by the place and have the man
bring it to you the first thing in the morning. It is quite a piece from
here, and maybe he wouldn't sell it to _you_ for that price, but I know
he would to _me_."

Peace sat lost in thought, a bit of bread poised half way to her mouth.

"Is it a good cow?" asked Allee, timidly.

"The very best."

"Gentle, like Bossy?" Cherry questioned.

"Gentle as a lamb."

"Does she give four gallons of milk a day?" Peace interrupted.

"More, sometimes."

"Is she pretty?"

"Handsome as a picture."

"Does she give good milk, with lots of cream? We make our own butter,
you know."

"She's a splendid butter cow."

"Has she got brown eyes, like mine, and a curly tail, and two good
horns--not too sharp? Will she eat sugar out of your hand and not drive
folks out of the stall when they try to pet her?"

"She is the finest cow I ever saw--"

"Then it's funny the man will sell her for; fifteen dollars," declared
Peace, with sudden suspicion, studying the old man opposite her, but
seeing only a sandy, untrimmed beard, a strong, honest face, with square
jaws, and a pair of the kindest eyes she had ever looked into.

"Not at all," said the man, chuckling to himself at the trap she had
laid for him. "He wants to get rid of his herd, but doesn't need the
money; though, of course, he wouldn't care to give the cows away."

"Well," hesitated the brown-eyed girl, "I guess--I will have you order
the cow for us. Gail won't feel so bad about losing Bossy if we can get
another just as good. Here is the money. Do you have to go so soon? I
would like to have you stay until the girls get here. Now, don't you
forget about the cow!"

"She will be here early tomorrow morning. Good-night, and many thanks
for the supper." Out into the spring night walked the tramp, with the
precious fifteen dollars in his pocket, and again the three children
took up their vigil at the window, watching for the sisters from town.

When at last Gail and Faith reached home, expecting to be met by tears
and reproaches from three hungry maids, they were surprised to find
supper spread on the table awaiting their coming, and to hear a strange
tale of mishap and adventure that would have done credit to the age of
Mother Goose or Robinson Crusoe.

"Doesn't that sound like a fairy prince?" asked Peace, when the recital
was ended. "But he says he isn't one."

"I should say it sounded like a plain robber story," said Faith
bitterly, while Gail sat white-faced and silent with despair. "What did
you give him that money for! It's the last we will ever see of it. You
are worse than _Jack and the Bean-Stalk_. You haven't even a handful of
bean blossoms to show."

"I've got a curl from Bossy's tail," said Peace indignantly, and then
burst into tears, unable to bear the sight of Gail's drawn face any
longer.

"Yes, and a robber on our trail. Supposing he comes tonight for the rest
of the money you told him about. No, Cherry, I don't want any supper.
Come and help me bolt the windows and fix things for the night. I wish
Hope was here now."

The supper remained untouched, the dishes were cleared away in silence,
and as soon as Hope arrived the unhappy little household climbed
wearily, fearfully upstairs to bed, where Peace sobbed herself to sleep,
with faithful Allee's arms about her neck. But no robber came to disturb
the brown house and at length even Gail and Faith drifted away to
slumberland, in spite of this added trouble.

In the dusk of early morning, while the world was still asleep, a heavy
wagon drew up at the gate of the Greenfield cottage, unloaded its
precious burden and drove rapidly away again; while Peace, in her
restless tossing, dreamed that a gentle, brown-eyed cow stood in Bossy's
stall, lowing for some breakfast. She awoke with a start, to hear a
familiar, persistent mooing, and the tinkle of a bell in the barnyard,
and, leaping out of bed, she rushed to the window with wildly beating
heart. There in the yard, tied to the old watering-trough, stood a
plump, pretty Jersey cow! Peace rubbed her eyes, pinched her arm to
make sure she was not still dreaming, and then startled the whole house
awake with a whoop of joy: "She has come, she has come! The cow has
come! My tramp isn't a robber or a beanstalk at all!"




CHAPTER XI

GARDENS AND GOPHERS


"Have you got any more corn or potatoes to drop, or onion sets to cover,
or radishes and beans and turnips to plant, or wheat or barley to
scatter, or--or anything else to do?" Peace panted breathlessly one warm
Saturday afternoon late in May.

"No," smiled Gail, looking tenderly down into the flushed, perspiring
face. "You girls have worked faithfully all day, and now you can rest
awhile. Mike is coming next week to finish the planting."

"Can--may we fix our own gardens, then? Mr. Kennedy gave me a whole lot
of seed the gove'nment sent him to plant, but he can't, 'cause he's
going to Alaska."

"Government seed! What kinds?"

"Cucumbers and beets, and parsley and carrots and--"

"But, child, we have all of those in our big garden now. I thought you
wanted your little plot of ground for flowers?"

"I do. One of these packages is sweet peas."

"Oh, dearie, I guess you have made a mistake. Mr. Kennedy wouldn't have
any use for sweet pea seed."

"Hope said that was the name on the package."

"Well, then I suppose they are, though I never heard tell of the
Kennedys raising flowers before. Sweet peas ought to be planted along a
fence. We will have Mike dig a little trench just inside the front yard
fence, and plant the peas there."

Peace's face fell, but she offered no objections to the plan, and Gail
straightway forgot all about it. Not so with the enthusiastic, youthful
planter, however; and, while the older sister was bustling about the hot
kitchen, the curly, brown head was bobbing energetically back and forth
in the front yard, where she and Cherry were digging a trench as fast as
they could turn the sod with an old broken spade and a discarded
fire-shovel; while Allee followed in their wake, dropping the seed into
the freshly-turned earth and carefully covering them again.

"Mercy, but this yard is big!" sighed weary Peace, as she began digging
along the third and last side. "Have you got enough left to stick in
here, Allee?"

"This is all," answered the blue-eyed toiler, displaying a handful of
flat, black seed in her apron.

"Those don't look like peas," cried Cherry, pausing to examine the
queer-looking things. "All I ever saw were round."

"Garden peas _are_ round," answered Peace, with a knowing air, "but
these are sweet peas, and they are flat."

"Did you ever see any before?" demanded Cherry suspiciously, nettled by
her sister's manner.

"No--o, but doesn't the sack they were in say 'sweet peas?'"

It certainly did, there was no disputing that fact, so Cherry discreetly
remained silent, and began her vigorous shoveling once more.

When the supper hour was announced the shallow, uneven trench was
completed, the seeds all covered, and three dirty gardeners perched in a
row on the fence, planning out the list of customers who would buy the
sweet blossoms when the vines had matured.

"There's the horn for supper," said Cherry.

"And I know Mrs. Lacy will be glad to get them sometimes, 'cause she
hasn't any flowers at all," continued Peace, ignoring the interruption.
"That makes ten people."

"Well, hurry up! I am hungry, and we'll have to wash before Gail will
give us anything to eat," cried the tallest girl impatiently. "I'll race
you to the pump."

"You are late," Hope greeted them, when, after a noisy splashing and
hasty wiping of faces, they entered the room. "Doesn't Allee's face look
funny with that black streak around it where she didn't hit the dirt?
What have you been doing to get so warm?"

"Planting sweet peas," answered Allee.

"Oh, Peace! After I said we would have Mike dig a trench by the fence!"

"You didn't say we _couldn't_ plant them, Gail. We dug it so's to save
Mike the trouble. Anyway, the seeds ought to be in the ground by this
time if they are ever going to blossom this year, and Mike is so slow.
We thought it was best not to wait. When do you s'pose they will come
up?"

"Oh, in about two or three weeks, maybe," Gail answered. "You better rub
your arms well with liniment before you go to bed tonight, or you will
be so lame tomorrow you can't move."

The incident was closed, and the sweet peas forgotten until one day
about three weeks later Hope called excitedly from the front yard,
"Gail, Gail, come here! What ever are these plants coming up all along
the fence? They are not sweet peas."

Gail came, examined the fat sprouts and looked at Hope in comical
dismay. "They are pumpkins or cucumbers or melons, and the whole front
fence is lined with them!"

"Poor Peace!" said Hope, when their laugh had ended. "She will be
heartbroken. She made her fortune a dozen times over on the blossoms
those vines are to bear."

"Yes," sighed Gail. "She has the happy faculty of trying to do one thing
and getting some unexpected, unheard-of result. Poor little blunderbus!
But what shall we do with these plants? There are enough to stock a
ranch. We can't leave them here, and I don't think they will bear
transplanting."

"And so they ain't sweet peas at all!" exclaimed a disappointed voice
behind them, and there stood Peace herself, contemplating her treasures
with solemn eyes.

"No, dear, they are pumpkins, I guess. What kind of seed did you plant?"

"I planted sweet pea seed," came the mournful reply. "Leastways the sack
said so. Hope read it herself."

"Yes, the sack was labelled plainly, but I never thought to examine the
seed. What did they look like?"

"They were black and flat."

"Melons," said Gail. "Well, I would rather have melons than pumpkins,
for we already have planted a lot of them. Still, it will spoil these to
transplant them, so they might just as well have been pumpkins. It is a
shame to have to throw them all away, though."

Peace said nothing, but in bitterness of heart helped pull up all the
green sprouts and throw them over the fence. Then she sat down beside
the heap to mourn over her fallen aircastles.

"Seems 's if I can't do anything like other folks," she sighed dismally.
"I plant sweet peas and get melons. I wonder if melons wouldn't sell
better than peas. Gail says these won't grow, but I am going to try them
anyway."

She filled her apron with the hapless plants and carried them away to
her small garden plot behind the shed, where she patiently set out every
one, regardless of the flower seeds already hid beneath the soil. And,
strange to say, they grew,--at least many of them did, choking out the
poppies and marigolds and balsams which finally climbed through the
three inches of ground the zealous gardener had hid them under, and
formed a thick tangle of promising vines.

Then the gophers began their destructive work, tunnelling the little
farm into a perfect labyrinth of underground passages, much to the
dismay of the little household, so dependent upon the success of their
crops. Traps were set, the holes were flooded, cats by the score were
let loose in the fields, but still the little pests continued to dig, as
if laughing at the futile attempts made to get rid of them. At length
Gail sighed, "I am afraid we will have to resort to poisoned grain. I
hate to, because I am so afraid the children will get into it, or
something dreadful happen on account of it."

"I don't see how either the youngsters or even the hens could get at it
if it was put down the holes," said Faith. "Say nothing about it but fix
up a mess and Hope and I will drop it some day when the children are
away and the hens in their yard."

So Gail mixed up a huge bucket full of poisoned grain, and while the
younger trio were gathering flowers in the woods one afternoon, the
other sisters sallied forth with their deadly bait, bent on
exterminating their small foes.

All might have gone well had not the smaller girls suddenly decided to
play hare and hound, and it fell to Peace's lot to be the hare. With an
apron full of gay dandelion blossoms for the trail, the active little
body set out on a wide detour of the woods, across the bridge, up
through the Hartman pasture land, reaching the barbed wire fence on
their own little farm just in time to see Hope dropping a last handful
of grain into a gopher hole before returning to the house with her empty
pail.

"Now what has she been doing?" thought Peace, peering out from a thicket
of hazel bushes. "Oh, I know! I bet she is trying to poison the gophers,
like Mr. Hartman did. I wonder if they will come up after the corn right
away. I am going to watch. I'd like to see how it kills them."

She carefully wriggled her way under the lower wire, and sat down in
front of the nearest gopher mound, forgetting all about her dandelions,
sisters, and play, in the prospect of witnessing the death of one of the
enemy. But either Mr. Gopher was not at home, or else he suspected the
presence of an unwelcome caller, for he did not come up in sight for
even a nibble of the tempting corn; and at last, weary of her fruitless
vigil, Peace cried aloud, "He prob'ly can get all he wants without
letting me see him. I'm going to dig it all out on top, so he will
_have_ to come out in sight."

She quickly scratched the poisoned bait out of the runway, scattered it
liberally about, and settled back in her former position, with her eyes
glued on the mouth of the tunnel; but still Mr. Gopher did not come.

"You tiresome old thing!" she exclaimed impatiently, after what seemed
hours of waiting. "I shan't watch for you another minute. I'll find
another hole and see if they will do any better there." So from mound to
mound she scurried, digging the grain up into view, and then watching
for the appearance of the tenant--with no result.

"Well, of all provoking people!" cried an indignant voice behind her,
and there were Cherry and Allee crawling under the fence. "How long have
you been sitting there like a bump on a log? You didn't drop enough
dandelions, and we had an awful time following you. What on earth are
you doing here? Let's go up to the pump for a drink. I am nearly burned
up." Without giving the weary Peace a chance to answer her questions,
she raced away through the pasture toward the house, dragging Allee with
her; and the third girl, after one last, hopeless glance at the gopher
hole, followed more slowly.

Some time later Hope came tearing across the field, with hair flying,
and her eyes filled with alarm, calling shrilly, "Gail, Faith, the hens
have broken out of the yard and are eating the poisoned grain! There are
more than a dozen down there now!"

"Oh, dear," cried Peace, with guilty conscience, "I scratched the corn
out of the holes so's I could watch the gophers die. And I let the hens
out, too, 'cause they looked so hot shut up in that mite of a yard after
they have been running loose for so long."

With despairing eyes, Gail looked down at the dying fowls, and not
daring to trust herself to speak, she hurried away to the house to sob
out her grief alone.

Faith paused long enough to count the hapless hens, clutched the
wretched culprit and shook her vigorously, then silently followed her
older sister, leaving the heartbroken child alone with the victims of
her curiosity.

"Did you ever see my equal?" she said aloud, addressing herself. "You
are the worst child that ever lived! You wash the labels off the spice
boxes so Faith gets ginger instead of mustard in her salad dressing; you
try to milk cows and break their legs instead; you spoil cakes and steal
eggs and bother Gail and Faith till they are nearly crazy; and now
you've taken to killing hens just to see how gophers die. Peace
Greenfield, aren't you ashamed of yourself? Yes, I am, but there's no
use in wasting those perfectly good hens--twenty of them--we had only
forty in all. It's a wonder the rest of them didn't get a dose, too.
Hope has got them locked up at last. There comes Cherry; I'll make her
help. Oh, Cherry, here's a job for you!"

"What is it? And why are the girls crying? They wouldn't tell me."

"I've killed a lot of hens for them, playing hare and hound. That's the
very last time I will ever be hare, Charity Greenfield! Help me undress
these chickens. We'll have some for supper, and the rest we'll peddle to
the town folks."

"Oh, Peace, I can't pull feathers! It makes me shiver every time a bunch
comes out in my hands."

"You will have to. You don't expect me to pick them all, do you? I guess
the girls never thought of selling the hens, and I can't ask them to
help now. We will get the ax and chop off their heads and then hang them
in the crab-apple tree while we strip them. You really must help,
Cherry. Gail says they pick better while they are warm."

She hunted up the ax, and one by one hacked off poor biddies' heads; but
when it came to the picking process, they found it was slow work for
small, inexperienced fingers, and gave up in despair when the third nude
body lay in the grass at their feet.

"It is almost night, Peace, and we've picked three. What shall we do?
'Twill take us hours to finish that whole bunch."

"We'll sell them for as much as we can get, and see if the butcher won't
take the rest with the feathers on. We can keep two or three for
ourselves. Where is Allee's cart?"

All that remained of the poison victims were loaded into the small
wagon, and their strange pilgrimage through the village streets began.
The picked fowls were readily disposed of, and one neighbor bought the
largest of the feathered birds, but no one else wanted to bother with
them, and it was only after much persuasion that the butcher consented
to take six, at the fancy price of twenty-five cents each.

"Well, that is better than nothing, though he wouldn't sell me one for
that little last Christmas," sighed Peace, much disappointed at the
result of their peddling. "Three dollars and fifty cents will buy quite
a few chickens, and chickens make hens if you give them time. What do
you s'pose Gail will say when we give her the money?"

They were not long in finding out. The two red-eyed girls were busy in
the kitchen when the children returned with the unsold hens in the
wagon; and with fear and trembling, Peace laid the coins on the table,
saying humbly, "Mrs. Munson took one, and Mrs. Bainbridge, and Mrs.
Edwards and Mrs. Lacy, and the butcher bought six. That's all the hens
we could sell. We left three here for supper and--"

"Peace Greenfield!" shrieked the horrified sisters in unison. "Did you
sell those poisoned hens? You march straight upstairs to bed--and
Cherry, too!" Then Gail flew one way and Faith the other, to collect the
birds before the buyers had a chance to dish up the delicacy to adored
families.

When they had seen the last fowl safely disposed of, and were home once
more, Gail said despairingly, "I don't know what in the world to do with
that child!"

"She needs a good, sound thrashing," answered Faith sharply. "She gets
into more mischief in a day than a monkey would in a month."

"She doesn't mean to," pleaded Gail. "Mother never believed in whipping.
If it were mischief for mischief's sake, I could punish her, but her
intentions are good--"

"Good intentions don't amount to much in her case. A good trouncing
might make her think a little more."

"I _can't_ whip her, Faith, but I'll go up and lecture her good. I
believe that will be more effective than harshness."

So the perplexed mother-sister mounted the stairs to the chamber above,
from which sounded a low murmur of voices, and she paused in the hallway
to assemble her thoughts, when Peace's words, evidently in supplication,
floated out through the open door: "And, O Lord, don't blame Gail for
getting mad. It's the first time I can remember. She is usu'ly very
good. S'posing she was a stepmother, like lame Jennie Munn's, wouldn't
we have a time living with her, though? And I am truly sorry about the
hens. Hope says we can't get many eggs now, 'cause half of the flock is
gone, and if we keep all our customers we will have to do without eggs
here at home. I don't mind that at all myself, 'cause I've eaten eggs
and eggs till it makes me sick to hunt them now; but what will Faith do
for her cakes? That's what is worrying me. It was so we could buy more
live hens that Cherry and me sold the dead ones. We didn't know they
would make people sick, and p'r'aps kill them, too. I am sorry the money
had to go back and that the hens are just wasted now, but I 'xpect
they'll make an elegant funeral tomorrow. So forgive Gail and keep her
from getting mad any more, and forgive me and keep me from being bad any
more, and make us 'happy children in a happy home.' Amen."

Softly, silently, Gail stole down the stairs again, with her lecture
unsaid.




CHAPTER XII

THE RASPBERRY PATCH


One hot, dusty afternoon in midsummer Faith trudged wearily up the road
from the village, climbed the steps to the vine-covered piazza where
Gail sat shelling peas, and dropped a handful of silver into her
sister's lap, saying, "Three dollars clear from my cakes this week! Wish
I could make that much every time. Mrs. Dunbar was perfectly delighted
with my jelly roll, and has ordered another for next Saturday."

"Isn't that fine!" smiled Gail. "You will have a bakery of your own some
day if you keep on. I thought she would like the roll; it was the best I
ever tasted."

"I think I could find quite a few customers for them if I only had the
jelly, but it costs so much to buy it, and all we have is that little
bit of apple jelly you made last summer."

"The crab-apple trees are loaded with mites of green apples,"
volunteered Cherry from the lower step, where she was making
cats-cradles with Allee.

"Yes, but they won't be ripe for weeks yet; and, besides, a sour jelly
is best for jelly rolls."

"Do blackberries make sour jelly?" asked Peace, pausing in her
occupation of fitting paper sails to the empty pods Gail had dropped.
"Cause the creek road is just lined with bushes."

"They are better than crab-apples, but it will be days before they are
ripe enough for use. I had thought of them, and investigated the bushes
only yesterday. Mrs. Grinnell says raspberries are best for the
purpose."

"Lots of people around here have raspberries," said Peace.

"And they want money for them, too."

"Mr. Hardman doesn't pay any 'tention to his down in the pasture. I've
helped myself there lots of times."

"But his wife does. I saw her there this morning."

Peace said no more, but, waiting until she saw their neighbor bring up
his cows to be milked, she slipped through the fence onto his land and
accosted him with the abrupt question, "How much will you take for the
rest of your raspberries?"

"What?"

She repeated her inquiry, and after scratching his head meditatively, he
exclaimed, as if to himself, "Another money-making scheme! If she don't
beat the Dutch!"

"This is a jelly-making scheme," returned Peace, with comical dignity.
"There is no money in it."

"Oh! Well, don't you know that raspberries are expensive?"

"Most people's are, but you never paid any 'tention to yours, so I
thought you would be glad to get rid of them for little or nothing."

"Oho!" he teased. "Begging again!"

"I'm not!" Peace denied hotly. "I'll pay for them if you don't charge
too high."

"How much will you pay?"

"I haven't any money, but I'll pick on shares."

"Share and share alike?"

"Yes; I'll keep half for my trouble, and you will get half for no
trouble."

Her method of figuring always amused him, and now he laughed outright,
"Seems to me I am entitled to them all. They are my berries, you know."

"Well," stormed Peace, "if that's the way you look at it, you can pick
'em, too!"

"Aw, don't get mad," he said soothingly. "I was just teasing. Of course
you can pick all the raspberries you want. My wife said just this
morning that the bushes were loaded, and she couldn't begin to handle
them all herself. But--say--that reminds me--I've rented the pasture to
old Skinner, and he's put his bull in there. You will have to watch your
chance when the old critter is out, to pick your berries."

"All right," cried Peace, expressing her elation by hopping about on one
foot. "It's awfully nice of you to give us the berries you don't care
to pick yourself, and we will see that the bull doesn't bother."

She was half way across the field by the time she had finished speaking,
eager to tell the good news to the girls; and before the dew was dry on
the grass the next morning, three sunbonneted figures scampered down the
road to Mr. Hartman's lower pasture, armed with big pails and Allee's
red wagon, intent on picking all the berries they could for Faith's
jelly.

"We'll have to leave Allee's cart outside the fence," said Peace,
climbing the high rails with astonishing agility and dropping nimbly
down on the other side. "Do you see the Skinflint's bull anywhere?"

"No," answered Cherry, taking a careful survey of the field from her
perch on the top rail. "There isn't a thing stirring."

"Then maybe we can pick all we want before the deacon brings him down.
Hurry, and keep a sharp lookout for the old beast. My, but these bushes
are stickery!"

"I should say they are," Cherry agreed, ruefully eyeing her bleeding
hands. "I don't believe it is going to be any fun picking raspberries.
They are lots worse than blackberries."

"S'posing we had been the prince who crawled through the hedge to wake
Sleeping Beauty. I bet he got good and scratched up, but he kept right
on and fin'ly kissed the princess awake."

"There ain't any princess in these bushes," grumbled Cherry, pausing to
suck a wounded thumb.

"No, but there are _berries_, and they are more important than
princesses. We couldn't make jelly out of a princess, but we can
out--Mercy, what was that noise?"

"It's the bull! Run, run! There it comes down the hill!" shrieked
Cherry, standing as if rooted to the spot, and staring with horror at
the angry animal tearing across the pasture toward them.

"Run yourself, you ninny!" screamed Peace, giving the older girl a push,
and then scrambling for the fence with Allee dragging by one arm behind
her.

There was no time to climb over, and the lower rail was too close to the
ground for them to crawl under, but Peace did not linger to discuss the
question. Grabbing the frightened baby by the heels, she thrust her
between the slats, and gave her a shove that pitched her head first into
a stagnant mudhole just outside the fence. Then pausing only long enough
to see that Cherry was safely through, she followed, still clutching her
now empty pail, and landing beside Allee in the mud.

"Whew! What a smell!" she spluttered, righting herself and trying to dig
her sister out of the pool. "And all on account of that miserable,
cowardly bull! Why don't you take someone your own size to fight?" She
shook her fist defiantly at the pawing, bellowing brute by the fence,
and not satisfied with that method of expressing her anger, she flung
the empty bucket at his head, crying in frenzy, "Take that, you old
sinner! It b'longs to the berries you've already got."

Her aim was truer than she had anticipated, and the pail fell with a
rattling clatter over the beast's ugly-looking horns, frightening him so
that for a brief moment he stood perfectly still. Then, with a snort of
fear and fury, he set off across the field at a mad gallop, with the
bucket still tossing on his head.

Peace glared angrily after the retreating enemy, too indignant over her
loss to think of their peril until Cherry quavered, "Hadn't we better
run while we have a chance? Suppose he should batter the fence down."

"No danger," Peace muttered shortly; but she picked herself up from the
ground, where she was trying to scrape the ill-smelling mud off her
shoes, and marched majestically up the road, trundling the cart behind
her.

"Where are you going?" cried Cherry, when they reached the first cross
street. "Here's where we turn."

"Turn, then! I'm going on to old Skinflint's house and tell him to keep
that ugly bull out of Hartman's pasture until we get those raspberries
picked."

"With that nasty mud all over you?"

"Mud and all," was the stubborn answer, and from force of habit, Cherry
fell into step beside her again, tramping along in silence until the
Skinner place was reached.

It just happened that the old man himself was hurrying up the path from
the barn as they approached, and Peace stopped him with an imperious
wave of her hand, speaking straight to the point before he could even
ask her what she wanted.

"Your bull won't let us pick raspberries in the lower pasture. Mr.
Hartman said we might, but just when we got our pails 'most full, that
old thing had to come along and bunt at us. We skipped, but he made us
lose all our berries. We'd like to have you tie him up or take him out
until we can get those berries picked."

The grouchy old fellow stood with open mouth, glaring at the
mud-bespattered figures, as if he doubted his senses, and as Peace
finished her speech, he laughed mirthlessly, screeching in his harsh,
cracked, rasping voice, "I put that bull in pasture myself, and there he
stays! I don't do any tying up, either. I rented that field and it's the
same as mine for as long as I hire it. You can't have them berries at
all. They are mine."

"Mr. Hartman said we could have them," Peace insisted; "and I guess he
wouldn't give away what didn't b'long to him. He may have rented the
pasture to you, but he never rented the berries."

Suddenly the old man changed tactics. "You can have all the berries you
can get," he taunted, shaking a warning finger in their faces, "but that
bull stays right there in that field!"

"All right, old Skinflint!" roared Peace, forgetting everything else in
her furious passion, and shaking an emphatic finger back at him. "Just
'member that, will you? We'll get the berries in spite of your old
_animule_!"

She stamped out of the yard and down the road toward home once more,
nursing her wrath and trying to think of some way whereby she might get
the disputed fruit, for she well knew that the deacon would do all he
could to prevent her now.

Early the next morning she was at the pasture again, only to find the
vicious enemy grazing close by, watching with wicked eyes every flirt of
her dress, as if defying her to gather the luscious red berries hanging
so temptingly near.

The second day it was the same, and the third. It looked as if the enemy
had conquered; but Peace was not to be easily defeated. She had set her
heart on picking that fruit, and she meant to have it at any cost.

The fourth morning, after reconnoitering and finding the bull still in
undisputed possession of the field, an uncertain but daring thought
dawned upon her busy brain, and when she returned home she casually
asked Hope, "Didn't folks one time have bull fights in Africa?"

"In Spain, you mean," answered the other, always ready to share her
small store of knowledge. "Yes, they still have them, though it is very
wicked."

"How do they fight?"

"Oh, I don't know exactly, but I think a man rides around a big ring on
horseback, flying a red flag until the bull is terribly mad, and then he
has to kill it with his dagger or get killed himself. It is terribly
cruel, teacher says."

"Why does the bull get mad at the flag?"

"Because it is red, and they can't stand that color. Neither can turkey
gobblers. Don't you remember you had on a red coat when Mr. Hartman's
gobbler chased you?"

"Oh," said Peace, much enlightened. She had received the information she
sought, and was content.

"So the flag has to be red, does it?" she mused, as she stealthily
climbed the stairs to the tiny, hot, cobwebby attic, where all the
cast-off clothing was stored against a rainy day. "I thought it was
something like that, but I didn't know for sure. There's an old red
dress that b'longed to me, and here is my old flannel petticoat. I don't
b'lieve we will ever use this mess of cheesecloth again, either; it is
so dreadfully streaked. But there is enough red in it yet."

Gathering up an armful of worn-out garments, she crept down the stairway
once more and slipped away to the lower pasture with her burden, where
for the next half hour she might have been seen tying the scarlet strips
to the fence rails in the corner farthest from the raspberry patch. When
the last rag was fastened securely, she stepped back and viewed the
result of her labor, sighing in deep satisfaction, "There are twenty-one
hunks in all. It ought to take him a good long time to tear them all to
pieces, and maybe if we work fast we can get most of the bushes stripped
while he is banging his head down here."

Hurrying home, she quietly summoned Cherry and Allee, and the trio set
out once more on their berry-picking excursion, finding their enemy too
busy in the far end of the field to interfere with them, just as Peace
had hoped.

"But he may come back here at any minute," argued Cherry, loth to enter
the field. "I thought you said he was gone from the pasture."

"I said from the _berries_. Don't stop to talk. As long as he doesn't
hear us, we are all right. We will pick close to the fence, so we can
get out quick. There must be _tons_ of berries right here in this clump.
Mercy, what a racket he makes!"

Then how the nimble fingers flew, and how fast the deep-tinted fruit
fell into the shining pails! But all the while the three pickers kept
their eyes fastened on the grove of trees which hid the animal from
sight, and three hearts pounded fearfully at every snort of the enraged
brute.

"Are you sure he is tied?" whispered cautious Cherry, after an unusually
loud bellow had made her jump almost out of her shoes.

"I didn't say he was tied. I said he wasn't apt to bother us this
morning. Keep still and pick with all your might. One of the big pails
in the wagon is full already."

"But how do you know he will stay there if he isn't tied?" persisted
Cherry, glancing apprehensively toward the trees again.

"He is too busy to think of coming over here now," Peace assured her
confidently, and that was all the satisfaction she could get, so she
lapsed into silence, and worked like a beaver until the second big
bucket was brimming over. Then the small taskmaster drew a deep breath
of relief and said graciously, "Now we will go home. These ought to make
quite a little jelly. We must have as much as twenty quarts. They don't
take as long as strawberries."

Thankfully the sisters crawled through the fence and triumphantly bore
their precious burden homeward, still hearing in the distance the angry
mutterings of Deacon Skinner's bull.

"Just see the loads of berries we picked!" chorused three happy voices,
as the rattling cart came to a standstill before the kitchen door.

"Faith can have all the jelly she wants, and you can make the leftover
seeds up in jam, can't you?"

"Children!" cried Gail, white to the lips. "Have you been in that
pasture with Mr. Skinner's ugly bull?"

"Yes," they confessed, "but he never came near us."

"I guess he didn't want to leave the grove," added Peace, marching
complacently away to wash her berry-stained hands.

"Don't you ever go there again," commanded the oldest sister, still
trembling with fright at what might have happened to the daring berry
pickers, but she never thought to question them any further, and Peace's
prank remained a secret for a short time longer.

The next day Deacon Skinner was early at the Hartman place, stalking
angrily up to the low, green house, and, striding into the kitchen
without the formality of knocking, demanded fiercely, "What do you mean
by plastering your fence all over with red rags? Your pasture fence?
I'll sue you for damages! My bull has lost one horn and is all battered
to pieces, the rails are splintered, and it's a wonder he didn't get
loose. Is that what you aimed at doing?"

Mr. Hartman faced his accuser unflinchingly, saying, with quiet
emphasis, "I don't know anything about the matter. The fence was all
right yesterday morning, for I was down there myself to see, before I
left for town. You don't know what you are saying when you threaten to
sue."

"But the fence is all tied up with red rags," blustered the angry
fellow. "How comes that? You rented me the--"

"I rented you the pasture, but I didn't rent you watch dogs and dragons
to guard it. That is your own lookout. I had nothing to do with it, and
it's no affair of mine if the village boys are up to their pranks."

Mr. Hartman's air was convincing, and the deacon's wrath toward his
neighbor cooled somewhat when he saw how groundless were his
accusations. Nevertheless, his ire was thoroughly aroused, and he
promised all sorts of punishment to the offenders when they were caught.
"If 'twas the village boys, I'll warrant the Judge's youngster was at
the head of it. I'll tan him till he can't stand when I get my hands on
him," he muttered.

"You better make sure of the guilty one before you thrash him,"
suggested Mr. Hartman, dryly.

"That Abbott boy and the Greenfield girl are the ringleaders in all the
mischief--by George, she's the one that did it! She vowed she'd get
those berries, bull or no bull. If she has touched those bushes, I'll--"

"No, you won't," interrupted the other man, rising to his feet with an
angry light in his eyes. "If that child went to you and asked about
those bushes, you don't lay hands on her in any way."

"She didn't ask. She came and told me to tie up the animal so she could
pick raspberries."

"And you refused."

"I rented that field, and you had no business to promise her the
berries."

"If you wanted them, why didn't you say so? They were going to waste on
the vines. You merely asked permission to put your animal in there for a
month while you were repairing your corral."

"I didn't want the berries, but--"

"That is all I care to know. You can take your property out of my
pasture at once. I won't rent to such a man as you. Sue if you like, and
see what you will get in court."

"Very well, Hartman," fumed the fiery-tempered old fellow. "But I will
settle even with you yet. Just remember that note of Lowe's, will you?
It's apt to be called to your attention pretty soon in a way you won't
like, I reckon, and you won't get a second's more time on it, either.
You will find it ain't so funny to set up against _me_ in this
neighborhood!"

The irate man stormed out of the house, still shaking his fist
threateningly, and Mr. Hartman, in a very disturbed state of mind,
returned to his breakfast.




CHAPTER XIII

PEACE GETS EVEN


"Peace, come here, I want to talk with you," called Mr. Hartman, leaning
over the fence and beckoning to the child at work in her melon patch,
measuring the mottled green fruit thickly dotted through the vines.

"It's grown two inches since I measured it last," said the brown-eyed
gardener to herself, leaving her task to see what the man wanted. "Here
I am."

"Do you know what kind of a mess you have got me into now?"

Peace looked her surprise, and answered saucily, "You don't fool me any
more, my friend. You've teased me so often that it is an old story now.
I know just what to 'xpect when I meet you."

At any other time he would have been delighted with this reply, but
under the circumstances--for he was really much disturbed over her
latest prank--her jaunty, don't-care air nettled him, and he said
sharply, "_This_ is no joking matter, Miss Greenfield, I can tell you
that! Why did you tie red rags all over my pasture fence?"

"So's to keep the deacon's bull busy. We couldn't get those berries any
other way."

"Well, I guess you succeeded. He broke one horn off and pretty near
skinned himself, I judge. The only wonder is that he didn't tear the
fence down and get loose."

"As long as he didn't, I shouldn't care about his horns," answered Peace
with provoking indifference. "The deacon said I could have all the
berries I could get, and he didn't say how I was to get them, either. I
thought and thought, and I couldn't see any way out but the red flags.
It worked beau--ti--fully. We got two buckets chock-full!"

"Yes," groaned Mr. Hartman; "and got old Skinner red hot at me! I signed
a note a year or two ago for a friend of mine, expecting by this time
that he would be on his feet and able to take care of it, but he isn't,
and I've got to settle. Where the money is coming from is more than I
can tell. It took all my ready cash to build that new barn, and old
Skinner is so blamed mad that he won't give me any more time. And all
this fuss on account of those berries. Plague take the old bushes, and
you, too, you little rascal!"

Peace drew herself up haughtily and with eyes flashing fire, demanded,
"Do you mean that?"

"Every word. I'd just like the chance to give you a good trouncing."

He was not in earnest, but he looked so harsh and stern that Peace for
a moment trembled in her shoes. Then all her natural childish passion
was aroused, and stamping her foot, she declared wrathfully, "I'll not
be friends with you any longer. You said I could have the berries, and
the deacon said I could have all I could get. You aren't being square
with me, and I won't have anything more to do with you." She turned on
her heel and flung herself indignantly across the garden to the road,
leaving Mr. Hartman still leaning against the fence, lost in thought.

The forest was her favorite retreat in times of trouble, but today the
cool shadows and whispering trees did not soothe her, and after
wandering about until the afternoon began to wane, she started for home,
still wrathful and passionate, for she felt that Mr. Hartman had been
very unfair in his treatment of her.

While she was still some distance from the little brown house, a
carriage drove up to their gate, and stopped, but she did not recognize
the rig, nor could she make out who had alighted; and for the time
being, her rage was lost in her greater curiosity. "Wonder who it can
be," she said to herself. "It isn't the doctor's horse, nor the Judge's
buggy, and that woman is too little for Mrs. Lacy or Mrs. Edwards. She's
got a big bundle. Maybe it's the Salvation Army bringing us some old
duds like they did the German family last week. But s'posing it was some
rich aunt or grandmother we didn't know we had. It's awfully hard not to
have any relations like other folks. I am going through old
Cross-Patch's cornfield, 'stead of running clear around by the road."

She crawled between the strands of barbed wire and ran swiftly down the
rows of rustling, whispering, silken corn, thinking only of the
unexpected visitors at home, until a big barn loomed up before her,
shining in its newness. Then she stopped abruptly, having suddenly
remembered her grievance.

"He _isn't_ square!" she cried. "I'd like to fight him good. I'll get
even with you some day, Mr. Hardman! Bet he's going to paint his old
barn. Here is a whole ocean of red paint in this pail, and there is a
stack of brushes. I--I'm going--to tell--him what I think of him in red
paint. Yes, sir, I'm going to do it this very minute!"

All thought of the mysterious visitor at home had vanished, all thought
of the consequences were stifled, and choosing the smallest brush in the
heap beside the pail, she began daubing scrawly, tipsy letters across
the new, white boards: _Mister Hardman isnt square_.

"There!" she breathed, as the last straggling "r" was finished. "I'll
bet that makes him mad, but maybe next time he won't blame me for his
old fusses. He _said_ I could have those raspberries."

She dipped the brush into the paint once more, made a few little red
spots below the printed letters, and labelled them _raspberries_ for
fear they might not otherwise be recognized. Then dropping the brush
back where she had found it, she skipped off home, feeling an
uncomfortable sense of guilt and shame in her heart for having wreaked
her revenge in such a manner.

At the gate Allee met her, shouting, "Mrs. Strong is here with the baby,
and she's going to stay for supper. Elva Munson brought her in their new
buggy. Come see Glen. We've hunted all over for you, and even blew the
horn."

The excited child danced up the path, and Peace followed, forgetting her
mean prank in her pleasure at seeing her beloved friends. Nor did she
remember any more about it until the next morning, when, seated on the
shed-roof, under the overhanging boughs of a great elm, she saw Mr.
Hartman striding angrily up the path to the kitchen door. Then her heart
gave a great thump and seemed to sink clear to her toes, as she thought
of her miserable method of getting even. Her passion had subsided during
the night, and try as she would, she could now think of no justifiable
excuse for her mean act.

Gail answered the imperative knock, and Peace heard him demand
wrathfully, "Where is Peace?"

"Somewhere around the place. She was under the maple there at the
corner a few moments ago. Is something wrong? Has she been annoying you
again?"

"Annoying me? She has daubed letters all over the back of my new barn. I
shall have to paint the whole building now, and it isn't very funny
business. If I had got hold of her when I first saw her work, I'd have
given her a thrashing she wouldn't have forgotten in one while. You will
whip that child like she deserves, or pay for the damage she has
done,--one or the other, and I mean it, too!" Without waiting for her
reply, he started down the path again, leaving Gail white-faced and
distressed in the kitchen door.

As soon as he was out of sight Peace slid from her perch to the ground
below, deserting the corncob doll she had been dressing, and scurried
away to the barn loft to face the new and undreamed-of situation. A
licking or pay for the damage done! Why had she been so thoughtless and
mean? She might have known that Gail would be the one to suffer. She
hated herself, as she always did after her mischievous pranks, but that
didn't help matters any. She must take her medicine. There was no money
to settle for her wanton mischief; it would have to be the licking.

"I wonder whether she'll use a shingle or her shoe," she thought
nervously, making ready to descend and brave Gail's displeasure, when
Cherry's head appeared on the ladder, and the older girl announced
excitedly, "Now you've done it, Peace Greenfield! Mr. Hartman is as mad
as a hornet about your painting his barn, and he says Gail must either
whip you hard, or pay for it. There isn't any money to pay--"

"Then I s'pose I'll have to take the licking," answered Peace with a
great show of indifference, though the pounding of her heart nearly
stifled her.

"But Gail says she can't lick you, and even Faith has backed out, though
at first she said she would give it to you good."

Here was an unlooked-for state of affairs--no money, and no one willing
to use the rod, though she undoubtedly deserved it.

"What are you going to do about it?" asked Cherry curiously.

"Lick myself likely," retorted Peace sarcastically. "You better lug
those eggs up to the doctor's. I've d'livered my bunch."

Cherry vanished as quickly as she had come, and as the sound of her
footsteps died away in the distance, Peace slid down the ladder. But
instead of going to the house for an interview with Gail, she slipped
through the garden, crawled under the fence, and presented herself at
the door of the new barn where Mr. Hartman, still in a blaze of anger,
was at work.

"What do you want here, you tormented rascal?" he yelled in fury,
shaking a hazel switch threateningly at her.

"I came to get licked," she answered steadily, though quaking inwardly.

"Wh-at?" he gasped in unbelieving amazement.

"I heard what you said to Gail about paying or licking me, and she
hasn't got any money to pay for my meanness, and she says--she says she
can't whip me; so I've come to you for it."

She really did not expect him to punish her in that manner, for
ordinarily he was not a hard-hearted man; but in view of Peace's
misdemeanor, Gail's hesitation angered him only the more, and catching
the child by her shoulder, he gave her a dozen sharp, stinging lashes
with his switch, then released her, thoroughly ashamed of himself.

He expected her to cry and scream, but she bit her lips, blinked her
brown eyes rapidly to keep the tears back, and stood like a statue until
he dropped his stick. Then choking back the sobs in her throat, she
faced him with the curt demand, "Give me a receipt, please."

"A--a what?"

"A receipt. Gail says we should never settle a bill without getting a
receipt."

"What do you want of a receipt?"

"So's I can show Gail that this bill is settled."

"Aha!" he mocked. "You are afraid Gail will repent and give you another
thrashing, are you?"

"No, I'm not! But I want to be sure you don't try to c'llect twice."

He stared at her open-mouthed, too hurt for words; and she, unaware that
she had deeply offended him, urged impatiently, as she rubbed her
smarting shoulders, "Hurry up! Write it on a piece of paper, so's I can
have it to keep always. Haven't you got any in your pocket?"

Mechanically he searched his pockets, drew forth a scrap of an envelope,
wrote the receipt she demanded, and handed it to her gravely. She
accepted it as gravely, spelled it through, and turned to go, saying
piously, "Thank you, Mr. Hardman. I hope you will get your reward in
heaven." She meant this in all reverence, thinking only of the receipt
he had given her, but he thought she was sarcastically referring to the
whipping she had suffered at his hands; and with a queer tightening of
his throat, he returned to his work, while she hurried homeward with her
precious bit of paper.

"Here is Mr. Hardman's receipt, Gail," she announced, briefly, entering
the kitchen where the two older girls were still discussing the new
problem.

"Where did you get the money!" asked Faith severely.

"I took the licking," was the short answer.

"Took the licking! From whom!"

"Mr. Hardman."

"Do you mean to say that Mr. Hardman whipped you!"

"Yes, I do. I went over and told him to."

"Did it hurt?" whispered Allee, with eyes brimming full of sympathy.

"It might have been worse, s'posing he had used a piece of iron instead
of a stick."

Profound silence reigned in the little room. Then Gail said abruptly,
"Come upstairs with me. I want to see you alone."

Peace glanced apprehensively at the pale face, which looked unusually
stern and severe, and said, "That is a sure-enough receipt, but if you
don't b'lieve it, you can ask Mr. Hardman about it."

"I am not doubting your story in the least," answered the big sister,
smiling in spite of herself, "but I want to talk to you, dear."

When Gail said "dear," she was never angry, so, without further
hesitation, Peace followed her to the small room under the eaves,
wondering what was coming next. Gail seated herself in the rickety chair
by the window, and drawing the small girl down into her lap, she asked,
"Now what is all this trouble about? Tell sister everything."

So Peace related the story of the raspberries and her anger at their
neighbor, which had led to the painting of the barn.

"What did you write on the building?" questioned Gail when Peace paused
at this point in her recital.

"Just the truth. I said, 'Mr. Hardman isn't square.' Then, so's he would
know what he wasn't square about, I made a lot of raspberries under the
printing."

"Peace! After Mr. Hartman has been so kind to us! What do you think of a
little girl who will do a thing like that!"

"At first I thought she was all right," answered the candid maiden. "But
now I've changed my mind, and I guess she was pretty bad when she did
it. Though he needn't have said what he did to me. He told me we could
have the berries."

"At the same time he warned you about Mr. Skinner's bull."

"Yes, and I warned Mr. Skinflint--I mean Mr. Skinner."

"Mr. Skinner is a hot-tempered man, and I am afraid if the Hartmans owe
him money, as you say, he will make it very uncomfortable for them."

"Maybe I better go see old Skinflint--I mean Mr. Skinner--and tell
him--"

"No, indeed!" cried Gail in alarm. "You have done damage enough already.
Promise me that you won't say anything to him about it, Peace."

"I promise. I ain't anxious to see him anyway, only I thought if it
would do any good I would go and tell him how it happened. I am awfully
sorry now."

"Then don't you think you better apologize to Mr. Hartman?"

"Wasn't the licking a napology enough?"

"The whipping only settled your account. It didn't say you were sorry.
And it was wrong to tell him that you hoped he would get his reward in
heaven."

"Why?" cried Peace in genuine astonishment. "That's what the lame
peddler woman always tells you when you buy a paper of needles or pins."

"That is different. She means what she says. The words are no idle
mockery to her. Every penny she can earn, helps her that much, and she
is truly grateful--"

"And I am truly grateful for my receipt, too! It isn't every man that
would give me one. Old Skinner now--"

"Oh, Peace!"

"But, Gail, dear, I wasn't mocking him. I wanted him to know that I knew
how much that receipt was worth. S'posing he hadn't written it, how
would you have known that I had settled that fuss?"

Gail gave up in despair. She never could argue with this small sister,
who so sadly needed a mother's wisdom to keep her sweet and good; so she
abruptly ended her lecture by gently insisting, "Mr. Hartman deserves
your apology. What if he had made us pay for the damage you did, or had
had you arrested? He was good to let you off with just a licking, Peace,
even if you do think it was hard punishment. If you are going to be a
bad girl, you must expect whippings."

"I don't think he likes me any more. He may chase me home before I can
apologize," suggested the unhappy culprit, with hanging head.

"I guess not," smiled Gail behind her hand. "Try it and see."

"Well," sighed miserable Peace, "I s'pose I must, then."

She reluctantly descended the stairs again, and disappeared down the
path toward the Hartman house, wishing with all her heart that the
ground would swallow her up before she had to meet the enemy. Suddenly a
way out of the dilemma presented itself. She searched hastily through
her pockets for paper and pencil, and folding both among the clutter,
she wrote her apology on a ragged, dirty scrap, and carried it to the
green house, intending to leave it on the doorstep and hurry away, but
as she peered cautiously around the corner of the shed she saw Mrs.
Hartman sitting on the porch, and retreated, murmuring, "Oh, dear, I
s'pose I'll have to say it to him after all. I _might_ pin it to the
barn door, or--maybe 'twould be better if I fastened it beside the
painting. That's what I'll do!"

She stole away to the barn, tacked the paper to the new boards, and was
about to depart when her eyes chanced to fall upon her sprawling
decorations of the previous day; and she halted, horrified at the
glaring scarlet letters. "Mercy! How they look! No wonder Mr. Hartman
gave me such a tre--men--jous switching. The paint is still here. I
will cover it all up."

The big brush did the work this time, and in a brief period a wide,
brilliant stripe of red hid the uneven letters from sight. But somehow
Mr. Hartman did not think the barn had been improved very much when he
found it, and was wrathfully; setting out in search of the artist when
the fluttering paper caught his eye.

"She's a great one for notes," he muttered, jerking the scrawl down,
half impatiently, half amused. "What does she say this time? Whew!"
Involuntarily he whistled a long-drawn-out whistle, for this is what
Peace had written:

     "I ipolijize for painting your barn cause Gale says I otto and
     anyway I didn't know it was going to look so bad so Ive erased the
     letters with some more paint but I still feel the same way about
     the raspberries. Also I hope you don't get your reward in Heaven.

     Peace Greenfield.

     "P.s. Gale said I should come myself and say this but I thot it was
     safest to rite as long as youre still mad."




CHAPTER XIV

PEACE, THE GOOD SAMARITAN


Down the sloping hillside browned with the summer sun strolled Peace one
afternoon late in August, gathering the purple foxgloves which waved
invitingly in the breeze. It was one of those rare days of waning
summer, clear, beautiful and cool, with just a hint of autumn haze in
the air; and it cast its magic spell over the bare-headed, flower-laden
maid, wandering dreamily through the crisp, crackling grass, with no
particular destination in view, no particular thought in mind. She had
set out an hour before with Cherry and Allee as her companions, but had
wandered away from them without being aware of it, and was now some
distance from home, still busy pulling the gorgeous stems of bloom,
still unconscious of her loneness, still lost in her own realms of
fancy.

This Peace was one few people knew. Allee was most familiar with the
brown-eyed dream-child, the little family at the parsonage were quite
well acquainted with her, and occasionally Gail caught a fleeting
glimpse of that hidden spirit, but to the rest of the little world in
which she lived she was a bright-eyed, gay-hearted little romp, whose
efforts to lend assistance to others were always leading her into
mischief, oftentimes with unhappy results.

So it is no wonder that busy Dr. Bainbridge was surprised when he
discovered her in this strange mood as he came puffing and panting up
the hill toward town, for she was so completely lost amid her dreams
that she did not see him nor hear his brusque greeting until he stepped
directly in her path and clutched her arm. Then she started as if
suddenly awakened from a sleep, and exclaimed, "Why, Dr. Bainbridge,
what do you mean by making me jump so? I nearly lost my skin! I never
saw you at all. Where did you come from--the clouds?"

"No, miss. If I had been there you would have seen me before this, for
if ever anyone was walking in the clouds, it was you just this minute.
Come along, I want you, dreamer. Can you do me a favor, a big one?"

"'Pends upon what it is," answered Peace, thoroughly awake now.

He laughed at the judicious tone of voice and the familiar cant of the
curly brown head, and answered promptly, "I want you to play Good
Samaritan for a little while, be nurse for one of my patients--"

"Nurse?" She looked at him with wide-open eyes, secretly wondering
whether he knew what he was talking about.

"Yes, ma'am, nurse!" he thundered. "Annette Fisher is sick, very sick,
and I have told her mother time after time that she must not be left
alone, yet in spite of all my cautions, that red-headed ignoramus has
taken the rest of the caboodle and gone off to town, leaving Annette all
alone in the house until the father gets home tonight. The child's fever
has been soaring sky-high for days, and I was just beginning to think I
had it in control and could pull her through when that old
termagant-gossip of a mother, who doesn't deserve to have chick or
child, hikes off to spend the afternoon with relatives in the city for a
chance to look up bargains at The Martindale. What are embroideries and
dress goods compared with the life of a child? Won't she get a piece of
my mind the next time I lay eyes on her?" So angry and indignant was the
old doctor that he had wholly forgotten himself, and spoke as he would
never have thought of doing under different circumstances.

Peace brought him to the earth by agreeing heartily, "Well, I would 'f I
was you, and I'd give her a good big piece, too. I'll nurse Annette if
you want me to. Shall I give her a bath and dose her with medicine every
few minutes, like we did mother? Does she need to be wrapped up in wet
rags or painted with _irondye_? Or do you want me to feed her _grool_
and broth?"

"You don't have to do a single thing but stay with her and keep her
from fretting until I can get someone from the village to go down there.
I gave her a bath just now myself, and she has taken her medicine--all I
want her to have for the present. She isn't to eat a thing, but she can
drink all the milk she wants, and occasionally have a little water if
she asks for it. Now remember, Peace. She is too sick to pay attention
to much of anything, but sometimes she is fretful and talks a good deal.
Try to be as quiet as possible yourself,--don't say things to excite
her--don't speak at all unless she wants you to. Do you understand?"

"Yes."

"I'll send someone down to relieve you the minute I can get anyone.
Hurry along now, and don't forget what I have said."

"All right," was the cheery response; and Peace, with a curious thrill
of awe in her heart, sped down the hill as fast as her nimble feet could
carry her.

The door of the Fisher house stood open, so, without knocking to make
her presence known, she stepped softly inside the hall, and crept up the
stairs to the little, hot chamber, where thin-faced Annette lay burning
with fever. The invalid was awake, tossing fretfully among her pillows,
but the instant she saw Peace in the doorway her eyes brightened, and
she called in a shrill, weak voice, "Is it really you, Peace, or has my
head turned 'round again?"

"It's really me. Dr. Bainbridge sent me up."

"That's funny. He wouldn't let you or any of the other girls come when I
asked for you before. Did you bring all those flowers for me?"

"Yes," Peace answered readily, glancing down at the huge bouquet in her
arms, which she had entirely forgotten. "Where shall I put them? No,
don't try to tell me; I'll find a dish myself."

"Would you please bring me a drink, too?" Annette asked hesitatingly.

"Sure!"

"Fresh from the well?"

"Yes."

Peace disappeared down the creaking stairs again, returning quickly with
a dripping dipper full of sparkling, ice-cold water from the well, and
the sick child drank feverishly, sighing as she relinquished the cup,
"That's awful good. If only it would stay cold all the time! But the
next time I want a drink it is warm and horrid, and ma says she can't be
always chasing to the well just to get me some water. Harry won't,
either. Pa ain't here but a little while night and morning, and Isabel
is too little to fetch it. Set the flowers here on the chair where I can
see them good. When ma comes home she'll likely throw them out. She says
she can't see the good of cluttering up the house with dishes of weeds
like that."

"Your mother is an old _turnacrank_,--Doctor says so," muttered Peace
indignantly, as she tugged at the heavy jar of foxgloves she had
arranged with artistic care.

"What did you say?" asked Annette, querulously.

Peace suddenly remembered the doctor's instructions. "I say I know how
to keep water cold. Gail used to do it for mother on hot days. I'll wet
a rag and wrap the dipper in that and set it in the window where the
wind will blow on it."

"Will that make it keep cool?"

"Yes, as long as the rag is wet. There is quite a little wind today,
too, and that helps."

"Is it cool out-doors?"

"Yes."

"Oh, dear! I wish I could go out under the trees. It is so hot in here
cooped up like I am."

Peace bit her tongue. How easy it was to forget the doctor's directions!
Twice already she had said things which excited the poor, sick prisoner,
whom she had been told to keep quiet. A happy inspiration leaped into
her thought, and moving the jar of delicate blossoms closer to the bed,
she slipped a spray into Annette's hand, saying, "S'pose we _minagine_
these flowers are trees. They would make a lovely forest, wouldn't they?
I often wish the trees had pretty flowers."

"Apple trees have," said Annette thoughtfully.

"That's so!" was the surprised ejaculation. "I forgot all about the
fruit trees. All of them have flowers, but I like the apple-blossoms
best, don't you?"

"Yes, they are so cool looking and so sweet and smelly."

"That's what I like about them most. When I go to the moon I wear a
dress made of apple-blossoms and--"

"When you go to the moon?" repeated Annette, looking bewildered and
wondering if the queer thoughts which the doctor called delirium were
coming back to haunt her again.

"Oh, of course, I really don't go, but I like to s'pose what it would be
like if I could go there. After Allee and me go to bed at night,
sometimes the moon comes and shines in at our window and we talk to it.
I don't care about the man-in-the-moon very much, though Allee likes
him. She says he must be so lonely up there by himself all the time that
she doesn't see how he can keep on smiling so. But I love the lady in
the moon."

"The lady in the moon?"

"Well, we call her the moon lady. We like to think she is a beautiful,
beau-ti-ful lady, with long, pale yellow hair that pretty nearly drags
when she walks. It would drag if she didn't wear such big tails on her
skirts. That's the kind of hair I wish I had instead of kinky, woolly
curls. Hers isn't a bit curly, but just falls back from her face like
Jennie Munn's after she has had it braided for a long time. And it
trails out behind her like a--a cloud. Her dress is white stuff, and
she never has it starched; it's just soft and shiny and swishy, and
seems to b'long just to her. Oh, she is the prettiest lady, Annette!"

"What color are her eyes?" asked the invalid, much interested in the
picture Peace was drawing.

"Blue, just like Hope's, only you don't think of them being blue when
you look at the moon lady--they 'mind you of stars. I think they are
stars, and she wears a star in her hair."

"Does she have a house to live in?"

"Not a house, but a palace, made of soft-looking, sparkly stones that
flash like diamond dust, and inside it is white and still,--the kind of
a still that makes you feel dreamy and nice. And there are fountains
everywhere, with cool water splashing out of the top of them. They are
made of white marble--the fountains are, I mean--and so are the
_pillows_ of the palace on the outside, where the moon lady walks in her
garden."

"Is there a garden in the moon?"

"In my moon there is, and--"

"Ma says the moon is made of green cheese, and is full of maggots."

"I heard that story, too, and I look for them first thing every time I
go there, but I haven't found any yet. Big, white Easter lilies grow
along the paths, and lilies-of-the-valley blossom the whole year round,
and water lilies make the lake almost white sometimes."

"Oh, a lake, too! How nice!"

"The moon lady's lake is the prettiest I ever saw. The water is always
silv'ry, just like our lakes look when the moon shines down on them. You
know, Annette, don't you?"

"Yes, the moon was shining one time when I went to Lake Marion with pa
to hear the band, and we rowed around in a little boat and listened to
the music."

"That's just what the moon lady does when we go to see her, only her
boats are green-pea pods, and the sails are apple-blossom petals. We
don't have to row; the boats just float of themselves, and we pick water
lilies or listen to the music--"

"What kind of music?"

"Oh, sometimes the moon lady sings by-low songs, and sometimes it's just
the frogs singing in the bottom of the lake."

"Oh, do you like frogs' croaking?"

"If I have been good I like it awfully well, but if I've made Gail or
anyone sorry, I don't want to listen to the frogs, for they keep saying,
'Don't do it again, don't do it again,' till it makes me mis'rable. The
frogs in the moon never say such things, though, and I like to listen to
them. Sometimes we call across the water to hear the echoes answer; and
sometimes we let the moonbeams light on our hands and hair and dresses,
and talk to them."

"Talk to the moonbeams? How funny!"

"Why, our moonbeams are lovely little fairies, with wings like
dragon-flies, and shiny, silv'ry gowns; and whenever they get tired of
flying about they settle down and glow like fireflies. They b'long to
the moon lady and are nice fairies. They make sugar stars and moon-ice
for us to eat."

Peace clapped her hand abruptly over her mouth. Suppose Annette should
ask for something to eat! But the sick child merely held the spray of
foxgloves nearer her face and inquired, "What is that? Ice-cream?"

"No; it's shaped like icicles and has kind of a sourish taste, either
lemon or strawberry, and it doesn't melt until you get tired of it. Then
it's all gone. And it's the same way with moonbeamade. Allee made up
that name from lemonade. It is just a heap of foam that tastes like the
north-west wind and is cool and nice."

"S'posing things is a queer game, ain't it?" murmured Annette, drowsily.

"It's lots of fun, and sometimes when we go to sleep we dream about
them,--the places we visit in the moon and the--"

"The water and lilies and fountains and cool things?"

"Yes, or the mountains, where the fairies and goblins live, or the
forests, which belong to the brownies and elves, or the valleys, where
the sunbeams play, or the caves, where the wind-voices hide, or--I do
b'lieve she's asleep. Yes, sir! Both eyes are tight shut, and she has
dropped the foxglove she was holding so hard."

Softly Peace dropped back into her former position upon the floor,
hardly daring to breathe for fear of waking the little slumberer, for
had not the doctor said she was a very sick child, and that she must be
kept as quiet as possible?

At thought of the doctor she began to wonder why he had not sent the
woman from the village as he had promised to do. Already the sun was
sinking low in the west, and no one had come to watch over the invalid.
Perhaps he had forgotten, perhaps someone was dreadfully sick and he had
been called away before he could find a nurse for Annette. Perhaps--the
brown head nodded gently, the long, dark lashes fluttered slowly over
the somber brown eyes, and Peace, too, was fast asleep, curled up
against the narrow bed, where the sick child lay in a dreamless,
refreshing slumber. The sunset faded from the sky, twilight deepened
into dusk, and the stars came out in their pale glory, but both the Good
Samaritan and her patient were unconscious of it all.

In the little brown house among the maple trees great anxiety brooded.
Peace had not come home with her sisters from their flower-gathering
expedition, and no one in town had seen her. The whole neighborhood was
aroused, and a search party was just being organized when the doctor's
carriage drove up to the gate, and the physician, angry, dismayed and
alarmed, hurried up the path as fast as his avoirdupois would permit,
flung open the screen and called imperiously, "Miss Gail, girls, any of
you! It's all my fault! Peace is down at the Fisher house watching over
Annette. I sent her there this afternoon while I went after a woman to
stay with the child, and have just this minute heard that Grandma Cole
sprained her ankle on the way there and had to crawl back home again.
Mrs. Fisher, the big idiot, is moseying up the road now, well satisfied
with her bargains. I passed her and her tribe a piece back and stopped
long enough to tell her what I thought of her. Now pile in and I'll take
you back with me for that little sister of yours."

He had caught up a little shawl from the hat-rack as he talked, and
throwing this over Gail's shoulders, he bundled her out of the house and
into his buggy before she had recovered from her astonishment at his
outburst; and after a moment of furious riding behind the lively bay
horse, she found herself stumbling up the dark stairs in the unlighted
Fisher house, at the heels of the panting, puffing, wrathy doctor. From
somewhere he produced a lamp, and soon the dim rays of light dispelled
the gloom of the place, and she stood beside him, looking down into the
pale face of Annette asleep among her pillows, and the rosy one of
smiling Peace, huddled in an uncomfortable bunch on the floor.

"What a picture!" murmured the doctor huskily, leaning over to touch the
damp forehead and feel the pulse of his little patient. "This is the
first natural sleep she has had for days. Bully for Peace! I confess I
was worried about leaving her here in the first place. I was afraid she
would fret Annette into a worse fever than she already had. I'd have
gone crazy if I'd had any notion that the child must stay here all the
afternoon, with only Peace to look after her. Excuse me if I seem more
concerned about Annette's welfare than over Peace's long absence and
your fright, Gail. I've had a big battle to pull her through, and I was
wild when I found that fool mother had gone off and left her alone.
Didn't expect to be gone long, and here it is _hours_! There, I won't
storm any more, but we'll wake Peace up and take her home."

He shook the child gently by the shoulder, and as the sleepy eyes
fluttered open they saw only Gail bending over her. "It's all right,
Gail," the child said softly, still remembering her charge. "Dr.
Bainbridge asked me to be a good _sanatarium_ over Annette while that
_negrogrampus_ of a mother was hunting bargains of embroid'ries and he
was hunting a sure-enough nurse. Oh, there is the doctor himself! Is
Annette all right? She talked a lot at first, but I told her about my
moon lady, and pretty soon she went fast asleep."

"Annette is doing splendidly, Dr. Peace, and I am tickled to death at
the good work you've done. Run along with Gail now. I'll be down in a
minute to drive you home."




CHAPTER XV

PEACE COLLECTS DAMAGES


The hot summer was drawing to a close. Two weeks more and September
would be ushered in, bringing with it the State Fair, always an event in
the lives of the busy farmers of the State, and particularly of those
around Martindale and Pendennis, as the fairgrounds were located midway
between the two big cities.

Peace had never attended a State Fair in all her short life, but she had
heard it talked about so much by the residents of Parker that she was
wildly excited when Faith decided to enter a cake in the cooking
exhibit, and immediately she determined to visit the Fair in person and
see her sister's handiwork fitly rewarded. However, when she made known
this decision to the rest of the family Gail said quietly, "I am afraid
you can't, dear. It costs fifty cents to enter the grounds, and even if
they admit children at half price, that would mean twenty-five cents for
each of you three youngest, and Hope would have to pay the full amount,
as she is now in her 'teens. We can't afford to go this year."

This was an item that Peace had not considered. Of course, if she went,
the rest of the family were entitled to the same pleasure, and that
would mean three half dollars and three quarters. She found her slate
and laboriously added up the column of figures. "Two dollars and
twenty-five cents! Mercy, that is a lot to spend just to go to the Fair
for one day, isn't it? Oh, dear, why is it we always have to stop and
think about the money? I wish dollars grew on trees, and all we had to
do when we wanted any would be to go out and pick them. What fun we'd
have! I do want to go to the Fair so much, though. If only there was
some way to earn the money!"

She wandered down to the melon patch, the pride of her childish heart,
and sat down on one of the green balls to meditate on the subject.

"I never saw the beat how your melons do grow," exclaimed a voice behind
her, as Mrs. Grinnell, on her way to the brown house, paused to admire
the tempting fruit. "If there was just some way of getting them into the
city, you might make a pretty penny off them. Now, mine don't begin to
be as big as yours, and there aren't half so many on the vines. That's a
whopper you are sitting on. You ought to take it to the Fair--"

"Why, Mrs. Grinnell, do folks take _melons_ to the Fair?"

"Yes, indeed, every year. Why, I've seen lots there that weren't as big
as yours. Of course it's the biggest that win the ribbons, and you might
not stand a show, but there would be no harm trying. I am intending to
enter my two mammoth pumpkins and that Hubbard squash, along with my
corn."

"Do you s'pose Gail would let me?"

"Yes, I think so. I'll take it in with mine if you like. I am to lug
Faith's cake."

"Oh, then I'll do it! These two whollipers. That one is almost as big as
the one I play is my armchair. The rest are too little to have a chance,
aren't they? Maybe they will be big enough by Fair time, though. They
have two weeks more to grow in."

"No telling what they will do in that time," laughed Mrs. Grinnell,
moving briskly away up the path, leaving Peace still perched on top of
the largest melon busily making her fortune from her small garden patch.

"If only we hadn't sold Black Prince," she mourned, "we could just cart
these melons into Martindale and make a whole lot on them. There, why
didn't I think of that before? Mike peddles garden truck in the city,
'most every day. I'll just have him tote these along. I've got--let me
see--twelve, sixteen, seventeen, twenty-one good ones, besides my big
fellows. I wonder if that will be enough. I'm going right over and see
Mike now. He is at home today; I saw him."

She skipped away through the garden to the O'Hara place, some distance
below them, and finding the red-haired boy grinding an ax in the
dooryard, she startled him by her breathless demand, "How much do
watermelons sell for in the city?"

"Shure an' it depinds on the size."

"Mine are great big ones. Mrs. Grinnell says they ought to bring a
pretty penny in Martindale."

"Well, thin, I think maybe they'd be bringing a quarter."

"Each one?"

"Shure!"

"And how much would that make if twenty-one were sold?"

"Five dollars and a quarter," promptly answered Mike, who was quick at
figures and proud of the accomplishment.

"That would be enough," cried Peace in great glee. "All I need is two
dollars and a quarter. Come on over to my house and pick them right
away."

"What?" yelled Mike, wondering if the child had gone crazy.

"Oh, I forgot! I haven't told you yet, have I? You can sell my melons in
the city for me if you like and save me the trouble."

The boy stared at her, transfixed by her complacent self-assurance.

"Has the cat got your tongue?" Peace asked, when he did not speak.

"No, but you have your nerve," he stuttered. "What d'ye take me for,--a
dray horse?"

"You've got a mule team, haven't you?" flared Peace, seeing no occasion
for his anger. "And you peddle truck nearly every day. Then I don't see
why you can't take my melons and sell them. Black Prince is gone, and we
can't drive about any more ourselves."

"Well, where do I come in? Melons take up a sight of wagon room, nothing
said of the time it will take to sell them. And then you expict me to do
it all for nothing!"

"I--I hadn't thought about that," faltered Peace; and, sitting down on
the windmill platform, she pulled a pencil stub from her pocket and
began to do some figuring on the sole of her shoe.

Mike watched her serious face in amusement, and grinned broadly when,
after five minutes of vigorous scratching and hard thinking, she
released her foot and said in her most business-like tones, "I'll tell
you what I will do. If you can sell all those twenty-one melons at
twenty-five cents each, you can have half the money for your trouble.
That will still leave me enough to get our family inside the Fair. Will
you do it?"

Mike scratched his head thoughtfully and then replied, "I'll take a look
at thim melons first."

So she led him to the small patch and proudly displayed her treasures.
"You see there are more than twenty-one melons on the vines. Those two
big ones Mrs. Grinnell is going to tote along with her pumpkins to the
Fair, and the little ones and the crooked fellers we'll eat at home; but
there are twenty-one nice ones to sell."

Mike expressed his admiration by the boyish exclamation, "Gee, ain't
them bouncers? How 'd ye do it? Our'n don't amount to shucks this year."

"That's what Mrs. Grinnell said about hers. I guess it's 'cause I know
how to grow watermelons," answered Peace, with charming frankness. "Mr.
Strong says that must be the reason. You see, I planted sweet-peas and
these came up. Maybe it's a sweet-pea melon. Do you s'pose it is?"

"I niver heard tell of such a thing," Mike soberly replied, "but maybe
that's what's the matter."

"Will you sell them for me?"

Mike was busy thumping the green balls with his knuckles, and feeling of
the stems, and when he had tested each in turn, he answered, "Yis, I'll
sell thim for you, but ye'd better wait a week or two. They aren't ripe
enough yit."

"Oh, dear," mourned the child, plainly disappointed. "The Fair begins in
two weeks, and that is what I wanted the money for. Don't you think they
will be ripe enough before that?"

"Don't look as if they would," Mike replied firmly. "And green melons
won't sell well. Besides, the longer they grow, the bigger they will
be."

"Then I suppose I must wait; but don't you tell the girls. I want to
s'prise them if we can go, for they don't think we can."

So, with many promises of secrecy, Mike departed, and Peace from that
moment became a devoted slave of the melon patch.

As soon as she was out of bed in the morning she flew down to the garden
to exult over her treasures, and with the last gleam of the dying day
she might be seen bending over the mottled fruit whispering encouraging
messages to them, coaxing them to grow. Bucket after bucket of water she
tugged from the well to pour on their thirsty roots, and load after load
of fertilizer she dragged in Allee's little cart to spread over the
ground in her eager desire to increase their size. But when Gail found
her with soap and scrub-brush polishing off each precious ball, she was
forced to curb her zealous gardening. However, the vines throve through
all this heroic treatment, and it seemed to Peace that she could almost
see the fruit grow in circumference. Each night she consulted Mike,
convinced that they had ripened sufficiently during the day to be
picked, but the boy steadfastly shook his head.

At length, as the second week of anxious waiting was drawing to a close,
Peace could endure the suspense no longer, and one warm afternoon, while
her sisters were occupied with their various duties, she snatched the
sharp bread-knife from the pantry shelf, and with Allee in tow, stole
down to her garden plot.

"What are you going to do?" whispered the blue-eyed tot, as if still
fearful that she might be overheard at the house.

"Try one of my melons and see if it isn't ripe. This feller will do, I
guess. It is big, but not too big." She plunged the shining blade deep
into the green rind, and as the two halves fell apart, disclosing the
bright red heart thickly dotted with black and white seeds, she cried
triumphantly, "There, I knew I was right! Just taste it, Allee. Ain't it
sweet and nice? Let's lug it down to the hedge and eat it up."

"That's a piggy," answered the smaller girl, smacking her lips over the
delicious morsel.

"We can 'ford to be pigs this once, I guess," Peace retorted. "If we
take it up to the house they will want to know why we cut it, and we'll
have to tell them about Mike and the Fair. You don't want them to know
that, do you?"

"No, but we are too little to eat it all ourselves."

"Half a melon each ain't much. Why, Len Abbott must have eaten two whole
ones at the church sociable the other night. Can you carry your half?"

"Yes," panted the younger lass, bravely tugging at her heavy load.

So, with much puffing, and many stops for breath, they dragged the
fruit through the cornfield to the creek road, scrambled in behind the
dense brush and blackberry vines, and began to dispose of the sweet,
juicy center.

"Let's eat one-half all up 'fore we begin the other," proposed Allee,
who seemed to have some doubts as to the capacity of her stomach.

"All right," Peace agreed. "The melon _does_ look pretty big, and maybe
we can't hold it all at one sitting. I'll push the other half under the
bushes and cover my handkerchief over it to keep off the flies. What a
lot of seed this one has! Let's save some for planting next year.
S'posing each of these seeds was a ticket to the State Fairgrounds, we
could all of us go every day and invite everyone else in town, pretty
near. Hush! There's a team coming up the road. Let's peek and see if
it's anyone we know."

She drew aside the branches as she spoke, and two inquisitive,
fruit-stained faces peered out of the opening just as a two-seated
carryall drew up by the roadside, and a woman's voice said imperatively,
"There is a cluster, Henry,--lovely berries. I thought they were all
gone by this time."

Henry leaped over the wheel to the ground, gathered a handful of
dust-covered blackberries, and passed them up to the other three
occupants of the rig, remarking, "It's a shame we can't find watermelons
growing wild along the roadside. I am afraid if we have a melon social
at the church tomorrow night we must patronize the groceryman for the
fruit."

"I am sorry to have caused you this wild-goose chase," said a meek voice
from the back seat. "But last year we drove through this town when
watermelon vines were the only things in sight."

"That is everything in sight today," laughed Henry teasingly. "The
trouble is, they don't bear any decent fruit. I'd give five dollars if
anyone would show me twenty good, fair-sized watermelons--"

"All right, sir!" exclaimed an eager voice at his feet. "Give me the
five dollars, and I'll show you twenty-two!"

The man jumped as if shot, the three ladies screamed, and even the
horses started at the unexpected sound, or perhaps it was at sight of a
tousled brown head wriggling excitedly through the thicket, followed by
an equally tousled golden head.

"Well, who are you?" stammered the startled young man, as the children
gained their feet and stood shyly eyeing the city folks.

"Two of the Greenfield kids," answered Peace. "We were just trying one
of my melons when we heard what you said. We've got some fine ones in
our garden, and I'll sell them cheap. They b'long to me. I planted
sweet-pea seeds and they came up."

The man roared, the young ladies giggled, and then one of them said
sweetly, "Have you some of your melon left so we can see what it is
like?"

"Yes," responded Peace, diving into the brush and dragging forth the
untouched half, covered with her dirty handkerchief. "Here it is. You
can eat it. Allee and me are 'most full now. Oh, it's black with ants!
Never mind, just brush them off; they won't change the taste any."

But though the ladies admired the ripe red fruit, they seemed to have no
appetite for it, and Henry was the only one of the party who sampled it.

"It's lickum good," he announced, after the first mouthful. "Better have
some, girls. No? Well, I shall lug this piece back with us for
refreshments. Say, Curly-locks, are all your melons as big as that?"

"Bigger--that is, most of them are. Mrs. Grinnell is going to take two
in to the Fair, but there are twenty-one big ones besides. I mean
twenty. This is the twenty-oneth."

They laughed again, and Henry proposed, "Let's go over and see them
anyway. If we can't find the melons, we can have a good time today at
least."

"Just as you say," chorused the girls; and bundling the soiled, sticky
children into the carriage with them, they drove on to the little brown
house.

As the team drew up in front of the gate the group of workers on the
porch started to their feet in surprise, but Peace called, "Go on with
your sewing! This is my company! They are going to look at my twenty
watermelons to see if they are any good; and then I am going to charge
them five dollars for them."

The laughing young people came up the walk to meet the embarrassed
mistress of the house, and the situation was briefly explained. "Our
League is planning for a lawn social tomorrow night," said one young
lady.

"Ice-cream and cake," added the second.

"With watermelons for a side-dish," the young man put in.

"And we thought we could get better melons if we came out here in the
country to buy them," said the fourth member of the party.

"The melon patch belongs to Peace," Gail told them. "We think she has
some pretty good fruit. Come this way and see for yourself."

"Oh, what big ones!" cried the visiting quartette. "Surely you won't
sell all these for five dollars?"

"No, only twenty," answered Peace gravely. "You can't have the two
biggest ones, and of course you don't want the crooked fellers. Mike
says they will sell for twenty-five cents each in Martindale."

So the twenty splendid melons were cut and loaded into the wagon, Peace
was paid a spandy new five-dollar bill, and the visitors departed
merrily. The child watched them out of sight, still holding fast to her
money, and then turned to Gail, sighing contentedly, "Now we can go to
the Fair! I've had an awful job getting rid of those things, but they
are gone at last, and here is the money. I 'xpect Mike will be mad as
hops, but he didn't know beans when he said they weren't ripe. I've
raised melons enough so I know."

"But, dearie," interrupted the oldest sister, "you mustn't spend your
money so recklessly for our pleasure. It will take almost half of that
five dollars just to pay our way into the grounds, and another dollar
for carfare."

"Then it's lucky Mike didn't sell the melons for me," said Peace, "or I
'xpect we'd have had to walk. I sold those watermelons just so's we all
could go to the Fair, Gail, and now you mustn't say no."

"Then I won't," suddenly whispered the tired mother-sister, seeing the
longing in the somber brown eyes, and realizing the child's unselfish
love. "When is Mrs. Grinnell to take your big melons away?"

"Tomorrow," she said. "The Fair begins Monday, you know."

"Then you better go say good-bye to them now," teased Faith. "It is
nearly supper time, and you will hardly have a chance in the morning."

But Peace shook her head, declaring seriously, "There will be time
enough. And if the melons don't win a prize, we'll bring them back home,
Mrs. Grinnell says."

When the morning dawned, however, and Peace ran eagerly down to visit
her garden, she stopped in dismay at the sight which greeted her eyes.
On the ground, strewn all over the patch, were broken, battered
melon-rinds; and the two mammoth balls were gone.

"Oh, my darlings! my precious melons!" she cried in grief. "Someone has
eaten them all up!" Throwing herself flat amid the wreck, she sobbed as
if her heart would break, so overwhelmed by her loss that it never
occurred to her to report the disaster to the rest of the family. It was
too cruel!

When the hot tears had relieved the little heart somewhat, she sat up
and looked about her once more, saying, with quivering lips, "I don't
s'pose they would have won a prize anyway, but it was hatefully mean of
whoever took them. I'll bet Mike O'Hara did it to get even with me for
selling the others to the city folks and keeping all the money myself!
I'm going straight over and tell him what a nice kind of a gentleman he
is."

She bounced to her feet, started swiftly across the patch, caught her
toe in a tough vine and fell sprawling on the ground again, rapping her
head smartly on a small, unripe melon at the edge of the field. "Mercy!
you're a hard-shelled old sinner!" she exclaimed, rubbing her bruised
forehead and glaring at the offending fruit. "Well, no wonder! I hit a
knife, as sure as you're alive! It ain't Mike's either. It's--Hector
Abbott's! Why didn't I think of him before? Of course he is the
_culvert_; but I'll bet he will wish he hadn't seen those melons when I
get through with him."

Burning with indignation, she sped away to the village, never pausing
until the Judge's house was reached. As she approached the place she
could see the family gathered around the breakfast table, set on the
wide, screened porch; and forgetting to knock, she threw open the door
and rushed in as if on the wings of the wind. Straight to Hector's chair
she stalked, and before the surprised family could recover their breath,
she clutched the unhappy youth by the hair and jerked him out of his
seat, crying accusingly, "Hec Abbott, you disgraceful son of a judge!
You stole my melons, my State Fair melons! You can't say you didn't,
'cause I've found your knife in the garden! I s'pose it walked there,
didn't it? Well, maybe it did, but _you_ walked it! You can just settle
for damages this very minute!"

By this time the Judge had found his tongue, and loosening the angry
fingers from his youngest son's luxuriant topknot, he demanded of Peace,
"What do you mean by such actions? Where are your manners? Why didn't
you knock? Who brought you up?"

"Why didn't _Hec_ knock when he came for my melons last night? Where are
_his_ manners? What did _he_ mean by such actions? _You brung him up!_"

Len Abbott choked over his coffee, Cecile hid her face in her napkin,
and even the anxious mother smiled, but the Judge looked more ruffled
than abashed, and he fairly thundered, "How do you know the knife is
Hector's?"

"Don't you s'pose I have seen it enough to know whose it is? Didn't I
grab it from him the day he pretended to cut off Lola Hunt's ears? I cut
his hand, too, but he deserved it! He's the meanest boy at school next
to Jimmy Jones. Teacher took the knife away one time when he was
skinning a frog, and I saw it then. Anyway, it's got his name on
it,--not just his 'nitials, but his whole name. And there it is!"

She held out the article for the Judge's inspection, and that worthy
gentleman, seeing the look of guilt in his small son's face, pocketed
it, saying whimsically to the wrathful accuser, "That is merely
circumstantial evidence. He might yet be innocent of the charge."

"He might," Peace retorted grimly; "but he ain't! Ask him!"

The Judge turned gravely to the crimson-cheeked lad and asked severely,
"Son, are you guilty or not guilty?"

"Guilty," muttered the miserable culprit.

"Didn't I tell you?" triumphed the girl.

"What would you recommend as his sentence?" asked the Judge.

"Sentence?" repeated Peace, with the uncomfortable feeling that she was
being laughed at.

"Punishment, I mean."

"A good, sound thrashing that ain't all show and no hurt," was the harsh
verdict.

"Very well! I will administer it now. Len, hand me that strap. Hector,
come here!"

Leonard passed the strap to his father, the younger son shuffled across
the porch to receive his sentence, and Peace stood breathlessly by,
watching with frightened eyes. The Judge raised the strip of leather and
brought it down with a resounding thwack across the boy's legs. He
squirmed, let out a wild yell, and began to blubber. The strap rose and
fell the second time, there was a second yell, and Peace, with blazing
eyes and blanched face, flew in between man and boy, snatched the
upraised strap and flung it clear across the room, screaming in fierce
indignation, "Don't you touch him again! You're a pretty kind of a
judge! Aren't you ashamed of yourself?"

"You sentenced him yourself," stammered the surprised man.

"Well, I'll let him off this time," she replied slowly, "but he will
have to pay for those melons."

"How much?"

"A dollar each."

"Whew! They are pretty expensive fruit, aren't they?"

"I've put more'n a dollar's worth of trouble into getting them ready for
the Fair, and now he's et up my blue ribbon."

"Your blue ribbon?"

"Yes, maybe those melons would have won a blue ribbon. Now I'll never
know."

"Well, well, that's too bad," sympathized the amused Judge. "Hector will
have to pay for them, surely. Son, go get the money out of your bank."

"I didn't eat all of them. Jimmy Jones and Ted Fenton and the Beldon
boys helped," said Hector, wiping his eyes sullenly.

"You can c'lect from them later," retorted Peace. "You were at the head
of it, I know."

"Get the money, son," repeated the father sternly, and the unhappy boy
thought it wise to obey without further demur.

When the two silver dollars were laid in her hand Peace smiled her
relief, and with a curt "Thank you," turned to go, when to the utter
amazement of the whole family, she whirled suddenly about and confronted
Hector again, saying calmly, "While I am here, I might as well c'lect
for that cake you stole more'n a year ago."

"Cake?" echoed the group, while the boy's face grew scarlet with guilt
once more.

"Yes, cake! We thought my tramp took it at first. Faith made it for the
minister's reception and put it on the wash-bench under a dishpan to
cool. 'Twas gone when she went to get it again. Hec stole it."

"Hector, did you?"

The boy nodded, too miserable to speak.

"How much was that worth, Peace?"

"It was bigger'n a fifty-cent one. I guess it will be seventy-five
cents."

"Get your bank and settle your account, Hector."

And once more the boy was forced to obey.

"There!" breathed Peace, closing her fingers over the added coins. "I
guess we are square now. I just happened to think of the cake. Isn't it
lucky I did? I wasn't quite sure he took it, but seeing that my tramp
didn't do it, I knew it must be someone in town, and I couldn't think of
anyone else mean enough. Good-bye!"

She ran lightly down the steps and away toward home, chanting to
herself, "He had to pay up, he had to pay up!" Suddenly she halted by
the roadside and listened. "Yes, sir! That's Hec a-howling! I guess the
Judge got hold of that strap again. Well, he deserves a good licking,
but I'm glad I'm not there to see him dance."




CHAPTER XVI

THE STATE FAIR CAKE


"What are you doing with all that torn-up paper, Peace?" asked Allee,
finding her sister busy stripping old papers into tiny shreds up in the
barn loft, after she had searched all over the place for her.

"I want to make a map like Hope's class had to," answered Peace, pouring
an apronful of scraps into a bucket of scalding water. "I asked her how
she did it, and she said they drew the maps first, and then mixed up a
lot of blotters in boiling water. I hunted all over the place for
blotters, and couldn't find but four, so I'm trying these newspapers.
They make an awful looking mess, but I guess they will work. You can
tear paper if you want to."

Allee took the hint, and accepting the magazine Peace offered her, she
fell to pulling it to pieces, adding her mite to the mixture in the
pail. "How many must you have?" she ventured to ask, after an hour at
this monotonous occupation.

"I guess this will be enough," answered the older girl, critically
examining the nasty mess, and stirring it so energetically that a goodly
portion of it flew out of the bucket into her lap.

"Have you drawn a map?" Allee inquired, looking around the dingy loft in
quest of such an article.

"No--o, I can't seem to get a good one. The first time I tried, it
looked like an elephant with two trunks, and the second time the
Mississippi River came out of the middle of Florida. In this last
picture, the land is so fat there isn't any room for the ocean. But I
found two old g'ographies in that heap of trash, and Gail said I could
have them. So I've pulled out all the maps of the United States that I
could find, and now I'm ready to cut them out. Then we'll paste them
onto that board and stick the paper _mush_ on top."

"Why do you want so many all alike?" asked the inquisitive little
sister, watching the shining scissors snip in and out around capes and
peninsulas with painstaking care. "I should think you would make a
c'lection of different maps like Hope has in her book."

Peace paused to consider the suggestion, and then answered, "Well,
that's something I hadn't thought about. It would be better to have them
all different, wouldn't it? I'll just hunt up some others that aren't
alike. _This_ United States one is too small, then; but maybe we can use
it for something else. I'll finish cutting it out anyway, though we'll
want the biggest we can get for our paper _mush_."

She finished snipping it out as carefully as she could in view of the
many ragged coasts of our country, and laid it aside, while she chose
another larger one to be honored with the "_paper mush_" covering. It
took a long time to complete all the maps selected--Europe, Asia,
Africa, the Americas, and Australia--but at last they were finished; and
Allee, the patient, joined in the sigh of satisfaction which escaped
Peace's lips as she dropped the scissors from her cramped, tired hands.

"Now we'll stick on the _mush_. Hold this map, Allee, so's it won't
wiggle." She daubed on a great handful of the dirty gray pulp and tried
to smooth it over the colored map surface, but evidently the paper had
not soaked long enough, for it still held its own shape, and refused
utterly to form the paste Peace had watched Hope handle with such ease
and success.

"It doesn't stay very well, does it?" remarked Allee.

"No, it doesn't!" snapped Peace in exasperation. "I shall not bother
with it any more. I'm tired of fooling with it when it acts like that.
I'll throw it out and play with my corncob doll this morning."

"Are you going to throw away all these nice maps that you have cut out,
too?" asked Allee, as the angry girl flung down the wet newspaper scraps
and started for the house.

Peace paused, surveyed the gorgeously colored heap which she had spent
so long a time in preparing, and answered, "Well, I'll keep them awhile,
for maybe some day we may want them again." Gathering them up, she
descended the ladder and marched off toward the kitchen, thoroughly out
of patience with the whole world and with herself in particular.

Through the open windows and door came savory smells of something
cooking, and she quickened her steps, sniffing the air and saying,
"Faith has been baking; maybe there are some dishes to lick. I wonder if
she made any frosting. Mrs. Lacy always wants caramel, and I just love
that."

"Faith's cross like you are," warned Allee, following in her sister's
steps, nevertheless.

"Cakes always make her cross," answered Peace, ignoring her share of the
compliment. "Gail says it makes her nervous thinking p'r'aps the oven
will be too hot or too cool, or the dough not just right, or something.
But Faith hardly ever gets so cross that she won't let us clean out the
pans."

They entered the room in search of the cooking dishes it was so often
their privilege to scrape, but the warm kitchen was in spick and span
order, with nothing of the kind in sight; and Allee suggested hopefully,
"Maybe they are in the pantry."

"And maybe Faith is, too," whispered Peace, cautiously opening the door
and peeping within. "No, she ain't, but she has made four big cakes.
My! Don't they look fine? One choc'late loaf, two caramel layers, and
one white square one. Looks like a graveyard with them all set even in a
row, doesn't it? There ought to be three frosting pans to lick."

"I don't see a single any," remarked Allee, poking into every nook and
cranny in hope of finding their treat. "I guess she licked them all
herself."

"That's too mean of her," cried Peace, joining in the hunt with no
better success. "She could have saved those dishes for us as well as
not. What have you found?"

Allee at that moment had unearthed two mysterious little packages, and
in trying to investigate one of them, she dropped it, and the bag's
contents were scattered all over the floor.

"Candies!" gasped Peace. "Sh! Don't cry! I'll help you pick them up.
They must be for Minnie Eastman's birthday cake. I s'pose that is the
white frosted one. The candies aren't hurt a mite, Allee. Stop
snivelling. Let's see what is in that other sack. Sugar, green sugar!
Looks poison, doesn't it? But it tastes all right. Oh, see what I've
done! My little United States map fell right on top of the white cake."

"It fits, too," gulped tearful Allee. "Looks as if it b'longed there."

"It's going to b'long!" cried Peace with sudden decision. "I shall trace
around it with this pointed knife and then fix it up like Hope does her
_paper mush_ maps. See, the frosting is soft enough to work easy."

"You better not," Allen protested. "Faith might not like it."

"Faith's tickled to death when she can find some new way of dec'rating
her cakes, and as this is Minnie's birthday cake she'll be awfully
pleased, 'cause she got the highest mark in geography of anyone in their
room, Hope says."

As she talked, she wielded the sharp knife with surprisingly good
results in tracing the ragged outlines of the map in the soft icing, and
even critical Allee was charmed when the paper was lifted, disclosing
the knife marks. "You have to put all those blue lines in, too, don't
you?" she asked. "How can you do that?"

Peace pondered. "Those are rivers and these brown smudges are mountains.
I asked Hope once. They all ought to go in, but I'm afraid I can't draw
straight enough. Oh, I know what I'll do. Mrs. Strong uses pin-pricked
patterns for stamping Glen's dresses. I'll try that." Carefully,
laboriously, she pricked in the rivers, mountains and state boundaries,
mistaking the latter for railroads; and then drew back to survey her
work.

"The pin marks don't show much, do they?" ventured Allee.

"No, but I shan't leave them there anyway--not alone. We'll cover the
railroads with these colored candies, and the rivers we'll make of
green sugar. They are blue on the map, but green and blue ain't much
different, anyway. We'll jam down the ocean and cover that with green,
too. These curly choc'late candies will make good mountains, and by
heaping up the frosting we dug out of the ocean we'll have islands and
lighthouses. Now, ain't that elegant?"

"Oh, my precious State Fair cake!" cried a dismayed voice behind them,
and before either guilty decorator could face the angry sister, they
were seized firmly by the shoulders, jerked through the doorway,
vigorously shaken, each dealt a smart blow across their ears, and left
dazed and tearful in the middle of the kitchen, while the avenger rushed
sobbing upstairs.

Neither culprit had recovered her breath when Gail was upon them, not
the gentle sister they were accustomed to seeing, but a stern,
indignant, justice-dealing judge.

"Peace Greenfield," she said severely, "what have you done? Ruined the
cake Faith has taken such pains with for the Fair!"

"I--I thought it was Minnie's birthday cake. I--I just dec'rated it."

"Just decorated it! What for? What business had you to touch it? That
was pure mischief and nothing else. She intended making a spray of roses
and green leaves on that cake and now you've spoiled it. Go sit down in
your little chairs and stay there until noon. For fear you will forget
about staying there, I shall tie you in."

"Oh, Gail, as if we were little kids!"

"That is what you are when you meddle with things that don't belong to
you. I have talked until I am tired. You don't pay a bit of attention,
so I must punish you some other way. Next time I shall send you to bed.
Perhaps I better do that today."

"Oh, Gail," sobbed miserable Peace, "I didn't mean to be bad, truly! I
thought Faith would like some new way to dec'rate her cakes. I--please
don't send us to bed! I'm awful sorry! Allee isn't to blame! She tried
to make me leave it alone, didn't you, Babe?"

"Yes," hiccoughed the equally penitent, but loyal young sinner, "and
then I helped dig up the rivers and pile on the mountains!"

Gail's face relaxed a little; a great tenderness for these little orphan
sisters swept through her heart, and she felt herself relenting. Then
Faith's tragic despair rose before her inner vision again, and she
hardened her heart, drew out some stout cord from the cupboard drawer,
and tied the humiliated duet into their rickety, worn-out old rockers,
leaving them to their unhappy thoughts while she went back to her work
upstairs.

For a long time, it seemed to them, they sat jogging back and forth in
the warm kitchen, mournfully dabbing their eyes and sniffing tearfully.
Then Peace sat up, drew a deep, quivering breath, and said decisively,
"I'm going to take that cake over to Mrs. Grinnell's--"

"Gail said we had to stay here until noon," quavered Allee.

"She said we had to sit in these _chairs_ till then," Peace corrected.

"Well, that's the same thing. How can you go over to Mrs. Grinnell's and
stay in your chair?"

"Easy enough. I'll take it along. Gail didn't tie our hands."

Allee gasped. "But you can't carry the cake, too!"

"I'll put the cake in the big egg basket and you'll take hold on one
handle and I the other. That will leave us each a free hand to hold onto
our chairs with."

"Oh!"

"Will you do it?"

"Course."

With some difficulty they rose to their feet, made their way into the
pantry once more and found the market basket; but it was another task to
get the heavy cake into it, and they were almost in despair, when
Peace's fertile mind found a solution to the problem.

"It's 'cause my chair keeps slipping that I can't do it," she said,
after several vain attempts to lift the cake. "I have only one hand to
pick this heavy thing up with. Stick this piece of string through the
back of my chair, Allee, and I'll tie it to the arms in front. There,
that makes straps and holds the chair better. It cuts into your
shoulders, though, doesn't it? Never mind, it won't be so bad when we
get started and can hold onto the chairs. Are you ready? Don't make any
noise, for Gail mustn't hear us."

Slowly, cautiously, they tiptoed across the kitchen floor, let
themselves out, and with wildly beating hearts hurried, as fast as the
bumping chairs tied to their backs would permit, toward the tiny red
cottage where Mrs. Grinnell lived all alone. Owing to their burdens,
they made slow progress, and both conspirators expected any moment to
hear Gail in pursuit. But it chanced that the busy housekeeper was too
much occupied in the front chambers to discover their absence, and they
reached the red house all out of breath, but without a mishap.

"For the land sakes!" cried the plump, motherly woman, upsetting a pan
of apples in her surprise. "What are you young ones playing now?"

"This isn't exactly a play," Peace answered. "We've spoiled Faith's
State Fair cake and now she ain't going to send it. I thought maybe you
could tell us some way to fix it up." She set down the basket, lifted
the paper covering and disclosed the queer, geographical decorations to
the woman's astonished gaze.

"Well, now, if that ain't the cutest!" exclaimed the worthy lady in
genuine admiration. "Who'd ever have thought of putting the United
States on a cake top but you, Peace Greenfield!"

"I never _thought_ of it," answered the child honestly. "The map fell
there, it fitted and I scratched it in. Now it is spoiled for the Fair
and Faith is bawling her eyes out."

Mrs. Grinnell looked keenly at the two sober, tear-stained faces before
her, guessed the rest of the story, and rubbed her chin thoughtfully.
Then she laughed in childish delight. "Why, I've got the finest scheme,
you ducklings! We will just do a little juggling, and I think Faith will
stand a better chance for the blue ribbon than she would with this white
cake."

"What do you mean?" faltered puzzled Peace.

"Just this: I ordered a caramel layer of Faith for a little supper some
of my people in the city are intending to give a niece of mine and her
beau. They are to be married next week. She is a school teacher, and
this cake will tickle her immensely. I'll just trot this in for the
supper, and we'll take the caramel layer to the Fair. According to my
notion of thinking, Faith's caramel cakes beat her others all hollow."

"But--but--the caramel cakes haven't any red candy roses and green
leaves on them," stammered Peace.

"They don't need them," said Mrs. Grinnell, scornfully. "Goodness knows
they are pretty enough plain, and as for taste--they are the finest I
ever ate, and I used to be a pretty good cake-maker myself when the
children were at home and my husband living. Now, not a word to Faith
about this. Don't even tell Gail unless you have to. You better scamper
for home now before you are missed."

So they shambled back to the close kitchen, with the chairs still
bumping and rubbing at every step, and were safely settled in their
corner once more before Gail had finished her Saturday sweeping and
dusting above. When she came downstairs to prepare their simple lunch
and found the geographical cake missing from the pantry shelf, she
thought Faith had disposed of it in some way, and consequently asked no
questions, but released the sorry little sinners from their chairs, gave
them their dinner and sent them off to play.

When red-eyed Faith put in appearance late that afternoon, ready to
deliver the other three cakes to her customers, she looked stealthily
about for the ruined white mound, and not finding it, decided that Gail
had hid it until her heavy disappointment should have eased somewhat;
and she, too, asked no questions.

At first she refused to accompany the sisters on their visit to the
fairgrounds, but Peace's bitter misery softened her heart, and she went,
though still too sorely grieved to enjoy much of the gay scenes and
beautiful exhibits. However, all day long she studiously avoided the
building where the cooked food was on exhibition, though Peace was wild
to investigate its mysteries, and even Gail tried to persuade her to
enter. Late in the afternoon, just as the oldest sister was proposing
that they start for home, Cherry caught sight of a familiar figure
entering the Horticultural Building, and raced after her with a yell of
recognition, "Mrs. Grinnell, Mrs. Grinnell, we are all here!"

"Well, well," exclaimed the woman, smiling into the flushed face at her
elbow, "this is great luck. Come, all of you! I have found something I
want you to see. You, most of all, Faith."

She led them down one street and up another, into a white doorway before
any of them had a chance to discover the name of the building, through a
maze of aisles and a surging throng of weary sightseers, and paused in
the cake department, pointed toward a blue-ribbon cake in one case, and
said triumphantly, "Peace's geography cake was the hit of the evening
last Saturday, but it took the caramel layer to win the prize, Faith!"




CHAPTER XVII

THE CIRCUS AND THE MISSIONARY


"Oh, look, Allee! See the elephants and lions and giraffes and zebras on
that poster. It's the cirkis as sure as I'm alive! Do you know I've
always wanted to see the cirkis, and this is the first time I ever knew
one to stop at Parker."

"How do you know it will stop here?" asked skeptical Allee, who was just
beginning to read, and found the long words on the billboard too much
for her to master.

"'Cause it says so. Parker, the eighteenth, Allee. Just think, that's
only next Saturday! Just a week from today! Isn't it lucky it's on
Saturday? Do you s'pose we can go?"

"I 'xpect it will take money for that just like it does for everything
else," answered the blue-eyed baby with a comically philosophical air;
"and you know Gail never has any for such things as that."

"Well, this is cheaper than most things, 'cause it says 'a-dults
twenty-five cents, and children fifteen cents.' The Fair cost half a
dollar for a-dults and twenty-five cents for children. If there is a
chance to go to anything cheap, we better try hard to go, Allee, for
that doesn't happen often."

"Maybe Gail might not like to have us go even if we could get the
money."

"She does have some queer notions about places, doesn't she? At first
she didn't want us to see that moving picture show at the church, but
when Brother Strong went and took us, she thought it was all right.
We'll ask about the cirkis before we tell her that it's coming, and
maybe we can find out that way whether she would let us go."

"I don't think we would have to ask much, 'cause she thinks cirkises are
bad, and I don't b'lieve she would like to have us there."

"What makes you so sure? I never have heard her say a thing about them."

"She told Hope so the time Hope wanted to see '_Julio and Romiet_' when
they studied it in school."

"That wasn't a cirkis, that was a theatre, Allee. That's different. It
takes painted people to play out the words in the theatre, but at the
cirkis only real animals act, and do tricks that take brains to learn.
Why, this picture shows a nelephant beating a drum. Now, elephants live
in the _jumbles_ of Africa, Hope says, and they don't have drums to beat
there. Hunters go to their houses and catch them and teach them how to
drum, 'cause they have brains enough to learn. Look at that lion with
its mouth open and that woman with her head chucked clear inside. She
must like to be licked better'n I do. It makes me shiver when Towzer
sticks his big, hot tongue on my face. Ugh! S'posing the lion should
shut his mouth and bite her head off, what do you guess she'd do?"

"I guess they'd have to get another woman for the lion," answered Allee.
"I don't b'lieve those animals really do those things, do you, Peace?"

"Yes, I do. Why, that book of natural history that Hector lent us after
he got licked for stealing the melons tells about the way hunters train
them to act in cirkises. I'd like to see them awfully much myself."

"Then let's ask Gail. She _might_ have a little spare money."

"No, I don't think she would. We'll have to earn the money ourselves,
but I'm afraid she won't want us to go. That's what is bothering me. I
tell you what let's do. We'll earn the money first and buy our tickets,
and then I'm sure she will let us go. Shall we?"

"Maybe that would be the best way. But how'll we earn the money? It's
only a week from now, you said yourself, and that won't leave us much
time to do anything, 'specially as school keeps 'most all day long.
There ain't any strawberries to pick or blackberries to sell or snow to
sweep or--"

"Let's give a nentertaimnent in our barn like Hec and the boys did last
week in their carriage-shed. They charged a cent apiece, and earned
more'n a quarter, Hec told me. And I know we could give a better
entertainment than they did. You could sing and Cherry could speak.
Perhaps we could coax Hope to read to us. She does it splendidly, though
usu'ly she thinks she's too big to play with us any longer. I am pretty
sure Hec would turn summersets for us. He has been quite respectable
since that last licking the Judge gave him. Jimmy Jones would likely
play the bones for us, too, if Hec asked him to. They don't make a
pretty noise, but it's a sight to see his hands fly. Tessie is learning
the fiddle and I know she'd be glad to show off, and so would Effie, if
we could get our organ out into the barn."

"And you can whistle," put in Allee, all excitement as Peace unfolded
her brilliant plan. "You sound just like the birds, and Gail said only
the other night that you did better than lots of people who have taken
lessons. But do you s'pose she will let us have the organ? Do you s'pose
she'll even let us have the barn? It is in an awful clutter, and I don't
see where we could put the people who come."

"I was wondering about that myself, but it won't do any harm to ask.
There is Hec. We can find out from him right away if he will be one of
our show."

"Shall you tell him about the cirkis?"

"No, not a word. We'll have that as just a secret among our two selves
until we see how much money we can earn. See?"

"Yes."

"Don't you tell a soul!"

"Of course I won't!"

"Hector, wait a minute! We want to see you. Say, will you be in a
nentertainment me and Allee are getting up in our barn?"

The boy looked somewhat surprised at this request, for Peace had been
very slow in accepting his friendly advances, though he had showered her
with every possible attention ever since the day of the double tragedy
in their breakfast room, owing to certain forceful remarks made by his
irate parent. Here was an opportunity not to be disregarded, but with a
great show of indifference, he leisurely faced the two conspirators, and
lazily drawled out, "What kind of an entertainment?"

"One to make a little money," Peace answered briefly.

"What for?"

"'Cause I need it," was the very satisfactory reply.

"How much do you expect to make?"

"You said you got more'n a quarter, didn't you?"

"Yep. Twenty-eight cents."

"Then I think we ought to get more'n fifty cents, 'cause we mean to have
a _good_ program."

Hector felt as if a dash of cold water had suddenly struck his face, but
he was quite accustomed to Peace's characteristics by this time, so did
not resent her implied doubtful compliment, but asked, with somewhat
more of interest in his manner, "Who's going to be in it?"

"Tessie and Effie and Cherry and Allee--"

"And Peace is to whistle," put in the small cherub with sisterly
loyalty.

"Aw, a girls' crowd! There ain't any boys in it."

"You'll make one if you will turn summersets. And we thought you might
get Jimmie to play the bones for us, and p'r'aps Lute Dunbar might bring
over his accordian. I b'lieve Mike O'Hara would speak that Irish piece
of his that makes folks laugh so much, and maybe we could get the
minister to stand on his head. He does that elegant. Whenever I visit
there, that's the first thing I ask him for, and he nearly always does
it, too."

"Whoop-ee!" shouted Hector, turning a handspring. "I know a _boy_ that
stands on his head, and he will do it any time I ask him to. Mr. Strong
prob'ly wouldn't in front of a big crowd like you'd have in your barn.
The Sherrars are coming down from Martindale Monday to stay a whole week
with us, and Victor plays the cornet to beat the band. He's a little
bigger'n us, but he will do anything for Cecile, and I'll get her to ask
him. What'll you do for chairs at your place?"

"I don't know," Peace confessed. "Maybe Gail won't even let us have
the barn, but I think she will. We must give it this week, before
next Saturday, I mean, 'cause that's the time we have to have the
money--" She stopped abruptly, fearing that he would guess her secret,
but he showed no trace of suspicion, so with freer breath she continued,
"I'm going home now and see Gail. I think Wednesday or Thursday after
school would be the best time, don't you? Then if it should rain, we
would still have another day left before Saturday. It won't take us long
to get ready, seeing we each do our part all alone."

"Yes," agreed Hector, with unusual readiness, "I think Wednesday will be
all right, and I'll get up the tickets for you."

"Goody! You might get them ready while I go see Gail. I'll be right
back."

She and Allee disappeared up the road in a cloud of dust and Hector
repaired to his home to manufacture the bits of cardboard necessary for
admission to the wonderful entertainment. It was an hour later that
Peace appeared at the Judge's door and asked to see the young gentleman
of the house, but it required no words from her to tell him that her
errand had been fruitless.

"She won't let you give the entertainment!" he said, the instant he saw
her woe-begone face.

"She doesn't care about the entertainment at all, but she won't let us
have the barn, and here I've been and asked Effie and Tessie and Mike,
and they all promised to take part. Oh, dear! I did want that money so
bad!"

"Are you sure Gail won't care if you give the entertainment?" Hector
stood in considerable awe of the big girls at the little brown house,
and he wanted to run no risks in the daring plan his own brain had
suddenly evolved.

"No, she doesn't care a single speck. She said we could give it in the
orchard, but then anyone could come and look on without having to pay a
cent, and I can't get my money at all."

"Yes, you can. We will give the entertainment in our carriage-shed if
you'll divide the money with me, Peace. Course if I furnish the building
I've a right to _part_ of the money."

"But half is quite a lot," demanded the girl with some hesitation. "See,
I've _got_ to make at least thirty cents for Allee and me, and I wanted
fifteen cents more for Cherry."

"We could have Cecile's old organ in the shed," said Hector, ignoring
her objections for the moment; "and there is a big lantern hanging from
the roof, so we could light it if it got dark before we were through. We
had better light it anyway, I guess, and draw the curtains so no one
outside can see. Then everyone who wants to hear the program will _have_
to buy a ticket. If we get up such a swell entertainment, Peace, it is
worth more'n a cent. Let's charge two for a nickel; then if we can get
fifty people to come it will give us each quite a neat little pile out
of it. What do you say?"

"I--don't--think--many folks would buy at such a high price," said
Peace, doubtfully, though the picture he drew was very alluring.

"Why, of course they will for such a bang-up program as we'll give them.
Mamma and Cecile and Mrs. Sherrar and Frances will go; and Nancy and
Marie, the girls. That makes six right there. Of course we can't charge
Victor anything if he takes part. I bet Miss Truesdale would buy a
ticket, too. You ask her, or get Allee to. Allee is in her room now. The
minister and his family are coming over some night for dinner while the
Sherrars are here, and I'll get mamma to invite them Wednesday, and you
tell them to come early enough for the program. They'll be glad to. Mr.
Strong was here the day we boys had our time in the carriage shed, and
he clapped and stamped the loudest of anyone."

"Have you written the tickets yet?"

"No, just cut them."

"Well, that's good. We'll charge a nickel for two tickets, and give it
in your shed next Wednesday. Get to work now. I've just thought of
Montie Fry and his trick dog, and Dick Sullivan and his mouth-organ. I
am going right over and see if they will take part."

She was as good as her word, and when the following Wednesday afternoon
arrived it would have been hard to tell which was the largest, the
audience in the carriage shed, or the company of participants arranged
on the platform which Leonard had built for just such gatherings; but
every one of the fifty tickets had been sold, and late arrivals had to
present cash, at the door, where Hector presided.

The program, was certainly original and varied, if somewhat lengthy, and
the audience was kept in a thrill of expectation from one number to the
next, for Peace was a master hand at arranging her numbers, and
instinctively had saved the best for the last. Just as she herself had
taken her place in front of the motley gathering to give an exhibition
of her whistling, the big door swung noiselessly, and the company from
the great house arrived in a body,--the Judge's wife and daughter, their
guests, the Sherrars, and the minister and his small family. They looked
very much surprised to find the place crowded to its utmost capacity,
but were even more astonished when, after a preliminary bar or so on the
mouth-organ, Dick Sullivan began softly to play _The Blue-bells of
Scotland_, and Peace's red lips took up the melody, whistling with
beautiful accuracy and clearness, trilling through measure after measure
with bird-like notes, following all of Dick's variations, and adding a
few of her own under the inspiration lent by the presence of her beloved
friends.

"Cecile," exclaimed her friend Frances, "why didn't you tell me you had
such a genius in your midst? I'd have been out here the first one to
hear the whole program. Why, she looks like an angel, and her whistling
is divine. Who is she?"

"Peace Greenfield," answered Cecile, almost too amazed for speech, for
this was the first time she herself had ever heard the young whistler.
"Father calls her the dearest little nuisance in town. She is one of the
most original pieces I ever saw in my life--always into mischief, and
always trying to help someone. But truly, I had no idea she could
whistle like that. Mr. Strong, what do you think of it?"

"She is doing splendidly!" he whispered enthusiastically. "She is a
regular genius at it. Why, a year ago she came to me and begged _me_ to
teach her."

"So she is a pupil of yours?" asked Mrs. Sherrar, as much enchanted with
the musician as were her young people.

"Not exactly. I helped her what I could, but I think most of the credit
belongs to Mike O'Hara and the birds in the woods. He set her to
imitating them; and she is an apt mimic, you will find. Clap with all
your might."

The very rafters rang with the applause of the enthusiastic audience, as
the small whistler took her seat among her mates on the platform, and
she was forced to give another selection, and a third. Allee came to
her aid in the fourth, and sang to a whistled accompaniment, but the
applause was more tremendous and insistent than before; and poor, weary
Peace rose to her feet for the fifth time, but instead of pouring forth
the torrent of melody they expected, she faced the audience
belligerently, and cried in exasperation, "My pucker is tired out and my
throat aches. Do you 'xpect me to stand here all night? Victor Sherrar
will play on his cornet now and then you can go home."

"Mamma," whispered Frances, while her brother was rendering the closing
number of the program, "I simply must have those two tots at my party
next week. They will be a novelty and everyone is sure to like them.
Cecile thinks I can borrow them all right, seeing that it is to be
Saturday night."

"Well, we'll see," smiled the mother indulgently, as the crowd broke up
and departed, while Peace and Hector divided the spoils in the corner.
"She surely is an interesting specimen, and it was worth ten times the
money just to hear her squelch her audience. Where is Brother Strong?"

He was interviewing the brown-eyed girl, who, with her money in hand,
was about ready to follow her companions for home; and they clustered
around the little group by Hector's table just in time to hear Peace's
dismayed voice cry, "You're fooling! I didn't believe that of _you_.
Why, Mr. Strong, I read it myself on the poster!"

"Where? What poster?"

"That big one up on the corner back of this house. Allee and me were
picking gentians when we saw it. Didn't we, Allee?"

"But, Peace, that was last year's sign. There hasn't been a circus in
town this summer, and there isn't going to be. It is past circus time."

"Are you sure?" she faltered, opening her fist and looking tragically at
the pile of nickels and dimes she held.

"Perfectly sure! They were to have been here last year just about this
time, but it rained pitchforks, as you children say, and they didn't
stop. That poster is ragged and faded with time. If you don't believe
me, just come up to the corner and I'll show you the date."

"Oh, I b'lieve you! Ministers don't often tell lies; but I was just
thinking of this heap of money I've earned all for nothing. Eighty cents
was my share, and I thought that would take most of our family--s'posing
Gail would let us go."

The amused grown-ups smiled behind her back, but the preacher understood
how disappointed she was, and taking her hand sympathetically in his, he
drew her aside and whispered a few words in her ear which brought back
the sparkle to her eyes and the happy glow to her face, as she exclaimed
enthusiastically, "I'll do it! Sure! No, I won't tell a soul. Course
Gail will let me. All right! Good-bye!"

She was off like a shot down the road, and the pastor joined his hostess
on the way to the house, with the irrelevant remark, "Dr. David Peak, a
missionary to Africa, is to speak at our Sunday morning service. I hope
we have a large attendance, as this will be a rare treat. It isn't often
a little country church can secure so notable a speaker. Spread the good
news all you can."

Something in his voice made the Judge's wife say suggestively, "He is
not to be the only unusual attraction, is he?"

"The only one to be advertised," smiled the parson, and she understood.

The following Sabbath day was glorious, bright, warm, and with the smell
of fall in the air. The church was packed; pastor and people were at
their best; and an expectant hush fell over the little audience when Mr.
Strong took his seat after reading the weekly announcements. The organ
began to play softly, necks were craned to catch a glimpse of the
singer, and then a buzz of surprise filled the room. Peace, dressed all
in white, and looking like a rosy cherub, had mounted to the organ loft
where Faith was playing, and at the proper moment, she began to whistle
a beautiful bird melody which surprised even those who had heard her the
previous Wednesday. The whole audience sat spellbound. It seemed
incredible that Peace,--little, blundering Peace, riotous, rebellious,
happy-go-lucky Peace--had such a soul of melody bottled up within her.
It was as if the songsters from the forest were suddenly let loose, and
even her own sisters were amazed at her song.

Mr. Strong had been wise when he chose that moment for Peace's music,
for the whole congregation was in tune for the grand missionary plea
which followed, when Dr. Peak rose to address them; and so inspired, and
uplifted was the speaker himself that he preached as he never had done
before, bringing his cause so close to the people that they were
thrilled and fired with his enthusiasm.

Parker was a well-to-do little village, built originally for the express
purpose of permitting wealthy business men of the city to find peaceful
retreat from the noisy metropolis, where, week in and week out, they
spent the long days of labor. It had now somewhat outgrown this
reputation, but still numbered many rich men among its inhabitants, and
boasted of an unusually fine church for such a small place, although it
was not noted for its spiritual zeal, and particularly was it lacking in
its missionary spirit. These were difficulties which the ardent young
preacher, Mr. Strong, had sought for many long months to overcome, and
while the earnest missionary from Africa was pleading the cause of the
heathen, the pastor praying with all his might for his own
congregation.

When the wonderful sermon was finished, and Mr. Strong saw the unusual
interest in the faces before him, he determined to strike while the iron
was hot, and though that Sunday was not scheduled for a missionary
collection, he sprang to his feet and made an urgent plea for more funds
for the grand and glorious cause.

"Give from the depths of your heart," he urged. "Think of these millions
of people needing the Gospel. Brother Peak has come direct from the
field, he knows conditions better than anyone else can know them. He
tells us they need more missionaries. How are they to get them? Through
us in our civilized countries. We can't all go in person, but I don't
think there is a soul here this morning but can give something to help a
little. The ushers will now wait upon you. Who will be the first to
give, and what shall it be,--yourself, time, m--"

"My cirkis money!" cried a shrill voice from the organ loft, and there
stood Peace, fishing coin after coin from the depths of her pocket and
dropping them over the pulpit into the missionary's outstretched hand.
"I earned it so's me and Allee and Cherry could go to the cirkis--that
is, if Gail would let us--and then, come to find out, it was last
summer, and on 'count of the rain it never stopped at all. Next best to
seeing the cirkis is hearing what that man said about the little black
babies in Africa,--that's where the cirkis animals come from, too,--and
I couldn't help wondering how I'd feel s'posing I had to live there and
be black and eat such horrible things and be boiled in a kettle to take
the dirt off, and buy my wife for a junk of cloth and wear strings of
beads for clo'es. Here's my eighty cents, Dr. Missionary, to buy them a
little more Gospel, and when I'm grown up if there are still heathen
living in that country, I b'lieve I'll come down and help."

Whether it was the missionary's sermon, Mr. Strong's plea, or Peace's
postscript that did the work, perhaps no one will ever know, but when
the ushers brought their loaded baskets to the pulpit and the
extraordinary collection was counted, it was found that over one hundred
dollars had been raised for the missionary cause that morning in the
Parker Church.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE HAND-ORGAN MAN


Hardly had the four younger girls disappeared across the fields on the
way to school the next morning, when the Abbott carriage drew up in
front of the little brown house, and Cecile and Frances hurried up the
path to the door. Gail answered the imperative knock, and looked so
surprised and pleased at the unexpected call that the Judge's daughter's
face crimsoned with contrition and shame to think she had neglected this
old-time friend so long.

"Why, Cecile!" stammered Gail, glancing involuntarily from the girls'
fresh, white suits to her own shabby print frock and rolled-up sleeves.
"This is a great treat. Come right in! We are so glad to have you call.
Don't apologize; you are more than welcome. But please excuse my
appearance. It is Monday morning and Faith and I are washing."

"Then don't you apologize, either," said Cecile, trying to laugh easily
and failing utterly. "We should not have called at this outrageous hour,
but Frances is to return to the city this afternoon, and she insisted
upon coming to see about the children before she left."

"Oh!" The bright light died from Gail's eyes, and the girls looked
uncomfortable. So it was an errand after all and not a friendly call
which brought them. "What is the matter with the children? Has Peace--"

"No, oh, no, nothing has happened," Cecile began hastily, when Frances
interrupted, "It was on my account. Your little whistler has captivated
me completely--and mamma, too. We wanted to know if we might borrow them
next Saturday, Peace and Allee, to help out in the program at a party I
am giving that night. Oh, don't say no! I have set my heart on it. We
will take the best care of them and bring them home early Sunday
morning. We are coming out here for dinner at Mr. Strong's house that
day, and of course must arrive in time for church service. Please say we
can borrow them. I do want them _so_ much!"

"Dear me," exclaimed Cecile in mortification. "I haven't even introduced
you two girls. No wonder you think I am crazy, Gail. This is my chum
from Martindale, Miss Sherrar, Miss Greenfield--"

"I'm Frances," again the radiant-faced stranger interrupted.

"And I am Gail," smiled the other. "I have heard the Strongs speak of
you often."

"No oftener than we have heard them speak about you," Frances assured
her. "We have known both of them for years, and ever since they took
charge here in Parker we have heard lots about you."

"No doubt. Mr. Strong is quite a champion of Peace's, and she certainly
needs one. I am afraid I don't make much of a success in bringing up the
little ones."

"I think Peace is a perfect cherub--in looks."

The trio laughed merrily, and Cecile added, "She means to be in actions,
but nothing she ever does comes out the way she intended it to, and she
keeps everyone guessing as to what she will do next. You ought to hear
Daddy rave about her. He thinks she is the smartest child he ever saw."

"I think she is the sweetest," said Frances, "she and Allee. They are
both too cunning for anything. I simply must have them at my party.
Won't you say they can come?"

"They have nothing to wear for such a grand occasion," Gail hesitated,
anxious to please, and yet not quite willing to trust two of the
precious sisters with strangers for even a twenty-four hours.

"That is easily remedied. I have some little cousins who are sure to
have dresses that will fit. It is to be rather a dress-parade, I must
admit, but you needn't worry on that account. Mamma knows how to fix
them up in Sara's and Marion's clothes. We must have them. Mr. Strong
will give us a good recommend, I know."

Gail laughed. "There is no need of that at all. I am willing that they
should go, only you can hardly blame me for hesitating a little, as this
will be the first time either one has been away from home over night;
and besides, Peace is such a blunderbus, I rather dread to let her go
anywhere for fear she will get into trouble."

"Now you oughtn't to feel that way at all," cried Frances gaily. "_I_
was just such a child as she is, and see what a well-behaved young lady
_I_ have grown to be! But really, she has such a sweet disposition and
great, tender heart, she will come out all right, I know. Mr. Strong
says so, and he is a splendid character reader. Oh, of course, I suppose
she has her bad days. We all do, but she is too much of a darling to
stay bad long. You should hear your preacher sermonize about her. He
says just as sure as she gets into mischief of any kind she comes to him
and tells him all about it, cries over it, and goes away promising to be
a better girl. Oh, I have lost my heart to her completely! We won't let
her get into mischief of any kind, I promise. And I know she will enjoy
herself."

"Well," answered Gail, slowly, "they may go, if you wish them so badly.
How--"

"Cecile will bring them when she comes Saturday morning, if you are
willing. That will give us plenty of time to get everything fixed up
properly. I thank you so much for your permission; and, Gail, though we
must hurry away this morning, the next time I come out here for a visit,
I shall run in to see you for a nice long chat. May I?"

"Oh, if you just would!" cried gentle Gail impulsively, longing to take
the bright face between her hands and kiss it. "We are too busy here to
get out very much ourselves, but we do like company 'awfully bad,' as
Peace used to say. I hope you come soon. The children will be ready for
Cecile Saturday when she gets here. Good-bye, I am sorry you must go so
soon. Come again, Cecile." The girls were gone, and Gail went back to
her wash-tubs in a daze.

Needless to say, the little girls were wild with excitement when told of
the coming gala day, and Cherry was green-eyed with envy, though, like
the well-behaved child she was, she never said a word to mar the
beautiful time in store for the two more fortunate sisters. Long before
Cecile arrived Saturday morning, the stiffly-starched duet stood on the
steps, waiting in a fever of impatience; and by the time the Sherrar
house in the great city was reached, both little girls were almost
transported with joy. They nearly talked Cecile's head off, so eager
were they to find out all about the grand party, and everything else of
interest they could think of; so she was more than relieved to turn her
lively charges over to Frances the minute that young lady put in
appearance.

"You little darlings!" the hostess exclaimed at sight of them. "Take
them right upstairs, Sophy; mamma wants them at once. Cecile, you look
tired out. Oh, yes, I can understand just how you feel for Sara and
Marion were here all day yesterday, and what do you think? They haven't
a thing suitable for us to borrow. Mamma says we'll have to go downtown
and buy something ready-made for Peace and Allee. She is dressing now,
and if you aren't too tired, I'm going to drag you along."

"Oh, I'm never too tired for gadding," replied Cecile with animation.
"But I can't answer half the questions those chatterboxes ask, and this
morning Allee was as bad as Peace. She wants to know if a chandelier
crows and is just an ordinary rooster. Peace thinks those green-houses
we pass on the car ought to be called 'white-houses,' because they are
painted white. Just before we got off at our avenue she suddenly
demanded to know for whom 'Vandrevort Street' was named. I couldn't
think for the life of me what she meant until I remembered we cross
Twenty-fourth Street, and the conductor was a foreigner who doesn't
pronounce his words distinctly. She is possessed to know why, if the
world is round, the houses on the other side don't fall off; and why,
when we lift our feet to step, they always come down to the earth again
instead of staying in the air. Why is it we can't pick ourselves up in
our own arms; why don't women's shoes hook up like men's; what is the
reason policemen's clothes are always blue and the grass is never
anything but green; why don't mules look like horses and what makes them
kick?"

Cecile stopped for breath, and Frances screamed with delight. "Maybe we
better stop and consult the doctor while we are in town," she suggested.

"No, I guess that won't be necessary now, for I have resigned them to
your tender mercies, and you must answer their questions after this. If
you don't get enough of it, Frances Sherrar, before tomorrow morning--"

"Don't prophesy, Cecile! If they can hold a candle to Marion and Sara,
I'll give you my opal ring."

"I stand a pretty good chance of getting the ring, then," answered
Cecile, half-laughing, half-serious; but at that moment Mrs. Sherrar
hustled down the stairway, with the two children in her wake, and the
merry group set out for town.

"This is the corner, mamma," said Frances, as the car came to a
standstill at one of the busiest streets; "and, oh, if there aren't Mrs.
Tate and Lucy! I haven't seen them for an age. Hurry, mamma, you know
you are as anxious to see them as I am."

Peace and Allee found themselves bundled hurriedly down the steps,
jerked through the surging crowd of people, teams and automobiles in
street, and landed on the opposite corner breathless, but game.

"Stay right here," they heard Mrs. Sherrar say; and the next instant the
older members of the party were wholly absorbed with those
unexpectedly-met friends. The children listened impatiently for a few
moments, but finding the conversation very uninteresting, looked about
them for other more congenial amusement.

Just then a wheezy old hand-organ behind them began a familiar melody,
and Peace beheld the player, a bent, white-haired, blind man, sitting in
the shadow of a lamp-post on the edge of the curbing, slowly, patiently
turning the crank of the little machine. She was at his side in an
instant, staring into the sightless face with her great, brown, pitying
eyes. His clothes were very shabby, his cheeks were pinched and pale;
his cup, she noticed, stood empty on the top of the organ; his hands
were terribly thin, and trembled as he played, so that he had to stop
frequently between songs and rest.

"Are you sick, Mr. Blind-man?" she asked before she was aware she had
spoken her thoughts aloud.

The white, unseeing eyes of the organist turned in the direction of the
voice, and he answered with a show of cheerfulness, "Not now, little
lady."

"Then you have been?"

"Yes, this is my first day out for two weeks."

"Oh, you poor man! It must tire you dreadfully to have to grind that box
all day. Won't you let me try it awhile? I know I can do it all right.
You can count your money while I play."

"There ain't been any to count so far this morning," he murmured,
unconsciously dropping his hand from the organ as the quaint,
old-fashioned song was finished; and before he had a chance to
remonstrate, Peace had seized the crank with both hands, and was
grinding away with all her might. But, though the crank seemed to turn
easily enough, the music came in jerks, and the blind player took
possession of his organ the minute she had completed the last bar,
saying gently, "I am afraid you don't know how to make the music, little
one. But I thank you a thousand times for your great good-will. I shall
soon be strong enough to play as well as I always have. The first day is
a little hard. Tomorrow it will be better. We'll change the roll now,
and give them another tune." He fumbled about the organ for a moment or
two, and then the strains of _Annie Laurie_ filled the air.

"Oh, I know that!" cried Peace, with animation. "Allee, you come and
sing, while I whistle. We can do it lovely. Now begin again."

Nothing loath to humor his strange, sympathetic little guests, he began
the second time to grind out the wheezy notes of the beautiful,
time-honored song, and Peace's red lips took up the accompaniment,
while Allee's sweet, childish voice warbled the words:

    "Maxwellton braes are bonnie,
      Where early fa's the dew,
    And it's there that Annie Laurie
      Gied me her promise true--
      Gied me her promise true,
    Which ne'er forgot will be;
    And for bonnie Annie Laurie
      I'd lay me doon and dee."

Mrs. Sherrar wheeled in amazement at the sound; the girls broke off
their animated conversation to stare at the quaint group on the corner;
a crowd gathered quickly; and with sudden, characteristic impulsiveness,
Peace caught up the battered tin cup from the old hand-organ, and held
it out invitingly. Hand after hand plunged deep into scores of pockets;
coin after coin rattled into the little dipper; the old man played
eagerly, breathlessly; and the children sang again and again in response
to the applause from the street.

How long the impromptu concert might have continued no one knows, but
through a break in the sea of faces surrounding them, Peace caught a
glimpse of Mrs. Sherrar's portly form, and it reminded her suddenly of
where she was and how she came to be there. Breaking off in the midst of
her song, she thrust the heavy cup back into the owner's hands, bowed
to the astonished throng, and cried shrilly, "He's been sick and can't
play as much as he used to could, until he gets strong again; so he
needs all the money he can get. Don't forget him when you go by again."

Grabbing Allee by the arm, she whisked away to where her friends were
waiting, fearful lest they might not approve of her impulsive action; so
before they had a chance to speak a word either of blame or praise, she
began, excusingly, "Just s'posing we all had our eyes punched out so's
we couldn't see, and had to sit on street corners and grind out music
all day long. Wouldn't it be terrible? I--I--thought--maybe it might
help a little if we joined in the music, and it did. He's got a whole
cupful of money, and now maybe he'll go home and rest a bit. He's been
sick."

Tears filled the eyes of the little company of grown-ups, and Frances,
with an understanding heart, drew the childish figures close, saying
tenderly, "For these bonnie little lassies I'd lay me doon and dee."




CHAPTER XIX

HEARTBREAK


It was a wild, stormy, October night. The rain fell fitfully, and the
howling wind raced madly through forest and over farmland, shrieking
down chimneys, rattling windows and doors, whistling through every
conceivable crack and crevice, and rudely buffeting any traveler who
chanced to be abroad. In the brown house three rosy-cheeked little maids
lay fast asleep in their beds in the tiny back chamber, blissfully
unconscious of wind and rain; but in the room below Faith and Hope kept
anxious vigil, awaiting Gail's return from the darkness and the storm.

"I should have gone, too," croaked Faith, in a voice so hoarse she could
scarcely speak above a whisper.

"No, indeed," Hope declared. "You have a dreadful cold now; but I think
she might have let me go. Towzer isn't enough company on such a night,
and like as not he will get tired of waiting and come home without her.
What was that? Oh, only the clock. Eleven! I had no idea it was so
late."

She rose from her chair and paced restlessly back and forth across the
room, pausing at every turn to look first out of one window and then
out of the other, as if trying to penetrate the inky blackness of the
stormy night. The unlatched gate creaked dismally on its hinges;
somewhere a door banged shut; and then an old bucket blew off the back
porch and down the steps with a rattlety-clatter which made the two
watchers within start and shiver.

Peace heard it, too, and sat bolt upright in bed, not knowing what had
awakened her, but trembling like a leaf with nervous fear. A terrific
gust of wind roared around the corner, shaking the little brown house
from rafter to foundation; the great elm trees tossed and groaned in
sympathy, and the leafless vines over the porch beat a mournful tattoo
against the walls.

    "Have you ever heard the wind go 'Yoooooo?'
      'Tis a pitiful sound to hear!
    It seems to chill you through and through
      With a strange and speechless fear,"

chattered Peace, hardly conscious of what she was saying. The gate shut
with a clang. "What's that? Sounded 's if--it _was_ the gate banging
and someone is coming up the steps! I wonder who it can be this time of
night and in all this storm?"

She listened intently for the visitor to knock. None came, but the front
door was opened unceremoniously, a blast of wind tore through the house,
and she heard two excited, relieved voices exclaim, "Oh, Gail! We
thought you would never come. Take off your coat this minute! You are
drenched!"

"What on earth is Gail doing out of doors in this rain?" said Peace to
herself. "She was sewing when I came up to bed. I'm going to find out."
Tumbling out of her warm nest, she crept softly down the stairs, and
slipped behind the faded drapery which served as door to the tiny hall
closet, from which position she could watch the girls in the
living-room, and hear much of what they were saying.

The first words which greeted her ears as the curtain fell back in
position with her behind it, were Faith's: "Oh, Gail, not Mr.
_Skinner_!"

"Yes," answered the oldest sister in a strained, unnatural voice that
struck terror to the little spy's heart, "Mr. Skinner!"

"But I thought Mr. Hartman held the mortgage," Hope began in bewildered
tones.

"He did, dear," Gail answered. "I supposed he still held it; we paid the
last interest money to him."

"Then how--"

"Two years ago Mr. Hartman signed a note for old Mr. Lowe on the Liberty
Road. The Lowes have always been considered wealthy people, and the two
families have been close friends for years, so he thought there would be
no trouble about the note; but when it fell due in July Mr. Lowe
couldn't pay, and Mr. Hartman had to. He owns quite a little property,
I guess, but all his ready money had gone into fixing up his buildings
and putting up a new barn. Mr. Skinner wouldn't give an extension of
time on the note, and said he would take nothing but cash payment or the
mortgage on our farm. He has always wanted this place, it seems, and had
expected to get it when papa bought it--you know the first owner was a
great friend of our family--and there was some bad feeling over it. He
never liked us, and Peace's prank with his bull settled everything. He
was fairly insulting--"

"Did you go to see him?" chorused the sisters.

"Surely. I thought there might be a _chance_ of his extending the time
on the mortgage, but--he wouldn't listen to me."

"Then we must lose the farm?"

"We have a month more before the mortgage is due, but I don't know where
the money to pay is coming from. I am afraid--the farm--must go." She
gasped out the words in such misery and despair that Peace found herself
crying with the older sister across the hall.

"What will become of us?" choked Hope after a long pause.

"I--I don't know," murmured Gail, "unless you go to live with the
neighbors until I can find something to do so I can get you all together
again. It seems the village people have already talked this over among
themselves."

"Did Peace tell you after all?" demanded Faith.

"No, I didn't! I never said a word!" cried Peace in great indignation,
and the startled sisters beheld a frowzy head thrust from behind the
closet drapery, and a pair of angry eyes glaring at them. "I won't go to
live with the Judge nor Mr. Hardman, either. Len and Cecile tease me
dreadfully, Hector I _predominate_ with all my heart and I can't abide
Mr. Hardman. He isn't square. He shouldn't have given old Skinflint the
_mordige_. It b'longs to us. Oh, dear, I'll never pick raspberries
again! That bull has made more fuss than any other person I know."

Gail caught the shivering, sobbing child in her arms, wrapped a shawl
around her, and sought to soothe her grief by saying gently, "There,
there, honey, don't cry like that! You are shaking with cold. How long
have you been in the closet, and why were you hiding there?"

"I heard you come in and I _had_ to see what was the matter. Oh, do say
I won't have to go to the Judge or Mr. Hardman! I hate them both--"

"Peace," reproved Gail, "you mustn't speak so. I am sorry you have
overheard anything about the matter. Mr. Hartman had a perfect right to
sell the mortgage to Mr. Skinner, and under the circumstances we can't
blame him. He wouldn't have done it if he could have helped it."

"What I can't understand," interposed Faith, with a deep frown
disfiguring her forehead, "is why he waited this long before telling
us."

"I guess he didn't relish breaking such news to us anyway, but he has
been hoping right along that Mr. Lowe would be able to pay him for the
note. Then he could buy back the mortgage, or loan us the money so we
could meet it, which amounts to the same thing. Of course, it is barely
possible that he will yet get the money in time, but we can't count on
it at all. He was so broken up over the matter that he actually cried
while he was talking to me."

"I sh'd think he would!" stormed Peace, who could not yet understand how
their neighbor had any excuse for selling the mortgage; neither did she
understand just what sort of a thing a mortgage is, but that it had
something to do with money and their farm was perfectly clear.

"Isn't there someone we know who could loan us the money?" asked Hope,
the hopeful, unwilling to accept the dark situation as it was presented.

"I can't think of a soul. Most of father's close friends were ministers,
and they wouldn't be able to help us. We have no relatives living. We
haven't anybody--"

"We have each other," whispered Hope; and Gail's clasp on the little
form in her lap tightened convulsively as she wondered vaguely how much
longer they could say those words.

"We have Mr. Strong, too," reminded Peace. "Maybe he knows how the money
could be paid."

"I had thought of asking his advice, but of course it was too stormy
tonight. We must wait until day."

"If he can't help us, ask him if he won't take me," said Peace, in her
most wheedlesome tones. "I would rather live with him than with anyone
else in the world if we have to break up our house. I thought he would
like to have me, too, but Mr. Jones said he wanted Allee."

"Mr. Jones doesn't know anything about it. Don't fret, dearie! There may
be lots of ways out of our trouble without our having to separate. I
_hope_ so. We have a month to think and plan; but if we must scatter for
a time among our kind friends, I trust we will all go bravely and do our
best to please."

"But I _can't_ go to the Judge's, Gail! He's a perfect fury, gets mad at
nothing, and chaws his mustache and glares so ugly I always listen to
see whether he's going to growl like Towzer."

"He has the finest house in town," said Faith consolingly, "and a piano
and a horse and buggy. He is going to have an automobile next summer."

"I'd rather live with nice folks than with pianos and nautomobiles,"
Peace interrupted. "I don't know what he wants of another girl, unless
it is for Len and Hector to tease."

"I thought you liked Len?"

"He used to be nice, but since he's began going to scollege, he's
horrid. He saw me yesterday morning in Cherry's dress, 'cause I tore my
last clean one; and he bugged his two eyes out like he was awfully
s'prised, and said, 'Mah deah child, yoah dress is too long! I don't
like the looks of it.'" She mimicked the college dude's affected airs so
perfectly that the three sisters shouted with laughter, forgetting for
the moment their heavy burden of care.

"What did you say?" asked Faith curiously, although in her heart she
knew that Len must have met his match.

"I looped my fingers up in circles like make-b'lieve eye-glasses, and
said, 'Mah deah man, yoah hat is too tall and yoah pants ah too wide. I
don't like the looks of them, but I am too p'lite to say so.'"

Another shout of mirth made the rafters ring, and the trio laughed till
they cried, much to Peace's surprise, for the scene she had just
depicted had caused her much indignation, and she could see nothing
funny about it. "If you don't be stiller you'll wake the children," she
warned them in her most grandmotherly tones, and they sobered quickly,
remembering the ghost of trouble hovering over the little house.

For a long time they sat there in silence, each one busy with her own
disturbed thoughts, unaware that the fire in the stove had died out, or
that the chimes had long since struck midnight.

Suddenly Gail lifted her eyes from the hole in the carpet, at which she
had been staring unseeingly, glanced at the old clock on the wall, and
exclaimed, "Girls, it's a quarter to one! Fly into bed, every one of
you! School keeps tomorrow just the same. Try to lay aside this trouble
at least for tonight and get a little sleep. In the morning I will speak
to Mr. Strong about it--"

"And remember to speak to God about it, too," murmured drowsy Peace,
stumbling upstairs in front of the weary mother-sister.




CHAPTER XX

AT THE BROKER'S OFFICE


"This is Saturday morning, Gail, and Mrs. Grinnell says I can go to
Martindale with her if you will let me," said Peace, a few days after
their midnight conference. She might have added that she herself had
asked for the invitation, but for reasons of her own she made no mention
of this fact.

Gail looked up from the pan of yeast she was "setting," and hesitatingly
began, "Well--"

"I've wiped the dishes and fed the hens and dusted the parlor--"

"But I haven't swept the parlor yet," Gail protested.

"I can't help that. I have dusted," Peace answered, firmly. "If I had
waited until you got ready to sweep, Mrs. Grinnell would have been
gone."

Gail giggled in spite of her efforts to check the smile on her lips, and
then soberly said, "But what about the eggs?"

"I have delivered my bunch already."

"Why, Peace, those baskets weren't full! What will Mrs. Abbott think?"

"Oh, I fixed that all right. There wasn't time to do much hunting for
our own eggs, so I borrowed the rest of Mrs. Hartman."

"Peace Greenfield! What shall I do with you?" cried the older sister in
utter discouragement, dropping her hands from her pan of mixing in a
gesture of despair which scattered a cloud of flour over herself and the
impatient pleader.

"Let me go with Mrs. Grinnell," was the prompt reply. "I won't be in
your way all day, then; and while I am gone, the hens will have laid
enough eggs to pay back Mrs. Hartman. I borrowed only five. Twenty-eight
hens ought to be able to lay that many before I get back. The eight
biddies I bought with the rest of my melon money could do better than
that, Gail. Please say I can go!"

Perhaps it was the sight of the wistful little face, perhaps it was
visions of a quiet day in which to attend to housework that won the
desired permission; but at any rate Gail consented reluctantly, and
Peace danced away to find the kind neighbor and report the sister's
decision.

"My, but I'm glad," she hummed to herself as she scrambled into her best
dress and flew out of the door into the warm autumn sunshine. "I thought
she wouldn't let me go, and then I couldn't get the money. Oh, I am so
glad, so glad!"

"Where are you going?" demanded a grieved voice, as Allee came through
the barn door and caught a glimpse of her sister's best skirts under the
flying coat.

Peace stopped short in the path and thoughtfully sucked her finger as
she eyed the dirty pinafore and wistful face of this pet of the family.

"To Martindale," she said, briefly. "Come along! There isn't time to
clean up. We'll hide you under the lap robe. Mrs. Grinnell won't care.
Cherry, Oh, Cherry, tell Gail I have taken Allee with me! She ain't
_very_ dirty, and I'll keep her covered up out of sight. And now, Allee,
don't you say a word to anyone about it, but I _begged_ Mrs. Grinnell to
take me. I want to get some money to buy back that _mordige_ of ours
from old Skinflint. Mind you keep it secret!"

"I will," promised Allee readily, for with her Peace's very wish was
law.

"There is Mrs. Grinnell all harnessed and waiting. Hurry up! I had to
bring Allee, Mrs. Grinnell, 'cause I wouldn't be at home to amuse her,
and she might get into mischief," she explained as they arrived panting
and breathless beside the big, roomy carriage, and she saw the
questioning glance of the woman's eyes.

"Oh, I see," answered Mrs. Grinnell, smiling grimly. "But how about
Gail? Does she know?"

"Oh, yes, she knows by this time. I sent Cherry to tell her. There
wasn't time to change her dress, so we will have to keep her covered up
pretty well, 'specially as she's wearing her old play coat. Say, Mrs.
Grinnell, do you know some people named Swift and Smart who live in
Martindale?"

"There is a firm of brokers by that name on Sixth Street. Why?" she
demanded suspiciously, for when Peace asked such a question, it usually
meant mischief brewing.

"Oh, I just wanted to know if there were really people called that or if
Mr. Hardman was only teasing. He told me when I killed the hens that I
better go there and borrow money to buy new ones with."

"He was just tormenting you," the woman replied, severely. "I hope you
weren't thinking of doing such a thing?"

"Oh, no!" Peace exclaimed, the hopeful light in her eyes fading quickly.
"Haven't I already bought eight good hens of O'Hara with my melon money?
They lay better than our others do, too. That makes twenty-eight in all
now. But I don't see why Mr. Hardman told me Swift & Smart would give me
the money."

"He was playing smart himself, I guess. That firm is one of the biggest
of its kind in the city. They buy mortgages and such things; they
haven't time to spend on little loans."

"Oh," said Peace, but the glad light came back to the somber brown eyes
once more, and she bounced happily up and down on the leather cushion.
"That name seemed such a funny one to me, I couldn't forget it. Swift &
Smart--I wonder if it fits?"

"If it fits?" echoed her companion.

"Yes. S'posing Mr. Swift was slower'n molasses in January and Mr. Smart
was stupid as a stump, they would be as big misfits as I am, wouldn't
they? Now if grandpa could just have known the kind of a girl I was
going to be, I bet he never would have named me Peace. Faith says it
would have been more 'propriate if he had called me Pieces. I was just
thinking what if those _breakers_ were the same way."

"Brokers, my dear, not breakers. Well, I can't say how well the names
fit, for I don't know them except by hearsay; but I judge they must be
pretty smart whether they are slow or swift."

Peace giggled gleefully as if she appreciated the pun, and said
musingly, "I'd like to see for myself how well they fitted. The names
sound so funny. Do you go near their store today?"

"Why, yes, we are just across the street from it when we stop at
Darnell's Dry Goods Store, but they have an office and not a store,
child, and no one goes there unless they want to borrow money or
something of that kind. Here we are at Peterson's. Will you come in
while I do my trading?"

"Well, no," stammered Peace, her face flushing crimson under her
friend's searching gaze. "Allee is pretty dirty and we best sit right
here, don't you think?"

Mrs. Grinnell hesitated, puzzled at this unusual resolve on the part of
the children who liked nothing better than to wander through the big
department stores and admire the pretty things; then she replied grimly,
"Very well, but don't either one of you stir out of that buggy while I
am gone."

"No, we won't," they promised in angelic tones, and the woman left them,
still perplexed and somewhat ill at ease. Fearing that some mischief was
on foot she cut short her bargain-hunting tour in Peterson's store and
hurried back to her charges, only to find them sitting silent and erect
on the seat where she had left them, busy watching the bustling crowds
in the streets.

"Why," cried Peace, almost in dismay, "you weren't gone at all hardly!
You must be a quick shopper."

"Yes, in this case," laughed the relieved woman, climbing into the rig
and clucking at the horse, "but it may take me some time at the
Martindale Dry Goods Store, and probably longer yet at Darnell's. Do you
think you can wait patiently out here in the wagon?"

"Oh, yes, it's lots of fun watching the people go by. There was one man
back there so fat and _pusy_ that we wondered what would happen s'posing
he should stub his toe. I don't believe his head and feet _could_ hit
the sidewalk at the same time, and he'd just roll away like a ball,
unless someone helped him up, wouldn't he?"

Again Mrs. Grinnell laughed grimly as she remarked with some sarcasm,
"What great sights you do see! You will be a genius one of these days,
I'll warrant. This is the Martindale. Now don't get out of the buggy."

"S'posing she says that at the next store," thought Peace to herself,
but aloud she answered cheerily, "Don't you fret, Mrs. Grinnell." The
busy woman was gone fully half an hour that time and Peace was jubilant,
but she did not show her delight, and merely remarked, as Mrs. Grinnell
gathered up the reins once more, "How little time it takes you to buy
things! Gail and Faith tramp all day to find a pair of stockings, and
then like as not get cheated. It is perfectly splendid watching the way
folks crowd, better than seeing things in the store. I never knew before
how much fun it is. You just ought to have seen that lady in the purple
hat fool two men. One man was coming towards her and the other was just
behind her when they got jammed in the doorway there. The front man
jumped one way and the woman jumped the same way so he couldn't get by.
He hopped back in his first place, and she hopped back in hers, and all
the while the long feather on her hat was spearing the hind man in the
eye, but he kept hopping the same way the others did. I thought I should
screech before the woman got enough jumping and stood still so the men
could get past, and didn't they look mad and scowly! Mercy, is this
Darnell's? Well, you needn't worry about us one mite, but take all the
time you want. The horse is as good as gold, and I'm keeping Allee's
dirty dress out of sight."

"I'll be back as soon as I can," promised Mrs. Grinnell when she could
get in a word, and forgetting her usual parting admonition, she hurried
sway through the crowd into the store.

"Now," exclaimed Peace, all a-flutter the minute the broad back had
disappeared, "let's see where Swift & Smart live. There it is just
across the street, but we'll have to hurry, 'cause there is no telling
how soon she will be back. Here, wrap this lap robe around you to keep
your clothes out of sight, and give me your hand. Mercy! I should think
the p'lice would have certain streets for the nautomobiles and cars to
go on instead of letting 'em all jumble up that way. We didn't get hit
that time; don't wait for the next one to come, but run."

Dragging poor, frightened, stumbling Allee and the trailing robe through
the turmoil of the street, Peace managed to land on the opposite walk
without mishap, but how she ever did it was a marvel to the big, brawny
policeman shouting warnings to them as he tried in vain to reach the
little figures dodging so recklessly under horses' noses, in front of
flying automobiles and across the path of clanging bicycles.

"Are we all here?" gasped the blue-eyed tot when Peace had set her on
her feet once more and adjusted the dragging robe about her shoulders.

"Course! What did you think we left behind? I know how to get across
crowded streets. Here is the door. I wonder which is Smart and which is
Swift,--there are three men in the room."

She lifted the latch and boldly entered, then halted and took a careful
survey of her surroundings.

There were several desks in the office, all dreadfully littered with
papers and books, and at one of these sat a short, bald-headed man,
talking rapidly to a pretty, smiley-faced young girl, who scribbled
queer little scratches in a tablet. Beside another desk in the opposite
corner of the room were two men, both tall and gray and pleasant
appearing, but so much absorbed in their conversation that they did not
notice the children's entrance. Through a nearby door came the fitful
clicking of some machine, and Peace could see a second girl seated at a
table pounding a typewriter, while another man hurried to and fro from a
row of shelves to a big iron box against the wall. None of them,
however, paid any attention to their anxious little visitors, and Peace,
after waiting impatiently until she feared Mrs. Grinnell would be back
looking for them, stepped across the polished floor to the gray men in
the corner, shook the nearest one by the sleeve, and demanded, "Are you
Swift or Smart, or; both--I mean neither?"

"Now, Mr. Campbell," the man was just saying, but at this interruption
he broke off abruptly, glared at the small intruder and asked in quick,
sharp tones, "What do you want?"

"Some money," stammered Peace, much startled by his nervous,
half-irritated manner.

"Money! Well, I am afraid you have come to the wrong place," he said
decisively, mistaking the children for beggars.

"Why, I thought--" began Peace, with quivering lips.

"Will a quarter be enough?" interrupted the other gray man, looking down
into the troubled face with keen, kindly, gray eyes, which seemed
strangely familiar to the child.

"Now, Campbell!" expostulated the tall, nervous man. "They come here in
swarms some days. You wouldn't be so ready with your cash if you had to
deal with the number we do."

Without reply, the man called Campbell drew a silver coin from his
pocket and extended it toward trembling Peace, but she shook her head,
gulping out, "It will take heaps more than that. Old Skinflint has got
the _mordige_ on our farm and won't give it up. I want money enough to
buy it back, so's we can still go on living there."

"Oh!" shouted the sharp-voiced man, while Mr. Campbell pocketed his
silver again. "So you thought you would come here to get the money, did
you?"

"Mr. Hardman said you let people borrow money from you," whispered Peace
miserably, wishing she had never left her seat in the carriage. "He told
me that when I poisoned half our hens, but Mrs. Grinnell said you
didn't bother with such little things; and anyway, I have bought eight
new ones already, so we don't need hens so much as we do that _mordige_.
Is your name Mr. Swift?"

"No, I am the other fellow--Smart."

"Hm, I thought it would be like that."

"Like what?"

"Why, that your names wouldn't fit. I told Mrs. Grinnell I bet Mr. Smart
would be stupider than a stump and Mr. Swift would be slower than slow.
Is that bald-headed man Mr. Swift?"

For an instant the two men in the corner stared at her in sheer
amazement, and then both burst into a great roar of laughter, which
brought the whole office force to their feet. "Say, Swift, come meet
this young mortgage raiser," called the nervous partner. "If you ever
get conceited, just interview a child."

The bald-headed man rose ponderously and joined the group, studying
every feature of the children, as he demanded, in his most business-like
tone, "What is your name?"

"Peace Greenfield."

"Where do you live?"

"Almost at Parker."

"Almost?"

"Well, we have a farm and Parker isn't big enough to hold farms. It's a
nice place, though."

"How did you get here?"

"Mrs. Grinnell brought us in her wagon."

"Who is she?"

"The lady what lives on the farm right back of ours."

"Did she tell you to come and see us?"

"Oh, no! She said not to, but she doesn't know anything about our
_mordige_, so while she was in the store we hustled over after the
money."

"Who did send you?"

"Why, nobody. We came all by ourselves."

"Hm, I thought so. Is this _mordige_ money to buy candy and dolls with?"

"No, it ain't!" snapped Peace, thinking he was trying to tease her.
"It's to keep old Skinflint from taking our farm away, so that we will
have to live around at different places."

"Where are your father and mother?"

"The angels have got 'em."

"Oh! Then you are orphans. Who takes care of you?"

"We all of us take care of ourselves, but Gail is the play mother."

"How many are there in your family?"

"Seven with Towzer. He's a dog."

They questioned her until the whole pitiful story was told, and then
stood silently lost in thought, while Peace fidgeted impatiently,
watching Old Gray across the street, expecting any minute to see Mrs.
Grinnell put in appearance.

Finally Mr. Swift said, jestingly, "What security have you to offer?"

"Sickerity?" repeated Peace, wonderingly.

"Yes, when we loan money we have to have some security from the party.
They must own some property or something of value to give us so if the
money isn't paid back we won't lose anything."

Peace pondered deeply, then drew off a small, worn, gold ring which had
lost its "set," and laid it in the man's hand, saying, "That's all the
prop'ty I've got except eight hens which I gave Gail for those I
poisoned. It had a ruby in it once, but the old rooster picked it out
and et it. I used to have two bunnies, too, but last Christmas the
German kids ate Winkum and Blinkum all up."

Mr. Swift smiled, but shook his head gravely, as he returned the ring.
"I am afraid that won't be enough, Miss Greenfield," he began, when Mr.
Smart cut him short, "What is the use of fooling any longer, Swift? She
probably knows as much about such matters as your grandbaby. A kid her
age knows a lot about business. Give her a nickel and send her packing."

The genial Mr. Swift led the disappointed duet to the door and dismissed
them with the words, "I am sorry, but we deal only with grown-up men and
women. Call again when you are twenty-one."

As the door closed behind them, however, the other tall, gray man, who
had been a silent spectator of the scene, spoke reprovingly, "I think
she has told you the truth, Smart. She is one of the youngsters I was
just telling you about. I was afraid she would recognize me, but
evidently she did not. I certainly shall investigate, for I am much
interested. They have my wife and me by the heartstrings already and
some of these days you may hear that a whole family has been adopted by
the erratic Campbells. They are the children of that Pendennis minister
who fought such a splendid fight in the Marble Avenue Church some years
back, until he was forced to retire on account of his health. Well, I
must be going. Good-day!" He stepped outside the office, and looked up
and down the street for a glimpse of the children, but they were nowhere
in sight; so he hailed a passing car, and was whirled rapidly away
through the busy city.

In the meantime, poor, disappointed Peace had jerked Allee back across
the street, helped her into the buggy and had just got nicely settled
when Mrs. Grinnell bustled out of Darnell's Department Store, ready for
the homeward journey. She eyed the sober faces keenly for an instant,
undecided whether the frowns were due to impatience at her long absence,
or because of some childish quarrel, but soon forgot all about the
matter in planning how she should make up her new print dress, so the
return trip was made in absolute silence.

But Peace had by no means given up hope in the matter of the mortgage
and, feeling better after the warm dinner had been eaten, she wandered
away to the barn to hatch some other impossible plan. Finding Hope in
the loft sorting out rubbish to be burned, she threw herself on an old
bench behind the building, where the bright sunlight shone invitingly,
and here she was soon so completely wrapped up in her own thoughts that
she did not hear the sound of approaching steps, and was startled when a
firm hand caught her by the shoulder and a merry voice demanded, "Why so
pensive, little maid? That face would scare the tramps away."

"Oh, Mr. Strong," she cried, catching his hand and pulling him down
beside her, "we are in the worst fix you ever heard. I knocked old
Skinflint's bull's horn off pawing red rags in the raspberry patch so
Faith could have some sour jelly for her jelly rolls, and to pay me for
that he won't give us back our _mordige_. Gail cried and Faith cried and
we all cried. In a month we must break up this house and go to live with
different people unless we can get some money somewhere. I tried this
morning to borrow some in Martindale, but they wouldn't believe we
needed it. I know we do, 'cause Gail said so the night I hid in the
closet when she didn't know I was there."

She paused for breath, and Mr. Strong said cheerily, "Yes, dear, I know
all about it. Gail told me, but I think maybe everything is coming out
all right in the end. Don't you fret! But if I were you, I wouldn't try
any more to borrow the money--"

"How are we to get it, then? Gail doesn't know of anybody."

"Gail was meant for a little mother instead of a business woman. Now
that she has asked some of us older folks for advice, I think we can
manage matters beautifully. Gail is just a girl herself, you know. She
understands the situation a little better now, but the burden is too
heavy for her young shoulders. We must make it lighter, lots lighter.
She wants to go to college, and Faith wants music lessons, and Hope
ought to study drawing, and what would you like to study?"

"Pigs! I want a pig farm," was the unexpected answer. "Ain't baby pigs
the dearest things you ever saw?"

His shout of derision stopped her, and she sat twisting her brown hands
in hurt and embarrassed silence.

Her mournful attitude brought the young preacher to his senses, and he
pinched her cheek playfully, saying, "Oh, what a doleful face! See if we
can't make it smile a little. No? Why, Peace, this is the way it looks.
Supposing it should freeze that way." He drew his face down into a
comically mournful grimace, and Peace laughed outright. "I heard that
you won the prize at Annette's party for making the worst looking face,"
he continued, "but I didn't suppose it was as bad as that."

"That isn't half bad," cried Peace scornfully. "Why, I can make the
ugliest faces you ever saw."

"Bet you can't!"

"Bet I can!"

"Try it!"

Peace promptly bulged out her eyes, turned up her nose, and drew down
her mouth in a hideous grimace, following it up with other horrible
distortions; and then exclaimed, "How do you like that?"

"I can do as well myself," said the preacher.

"I don't b'lieve it! Let's see you do it!"

Mr. Strong laid aside his hat, rumpled up his shining black hair, and
went through some fearful contortions of face, which almost paralyzed
Peace for the moment. Then she screamed her delight, hopping about on
one foot, and shouting boisterously, "You win, you win, Mr. Strong! If I
can ever make faces like those, I shall be perfectly happy. Do you
s'pose I am young enough to learn? It must have taken you all your life
to do it so beautifully. Will you teach me how?"

On the other side of the fence something moved in the thick brush, and
there was a sound of a man's deep chuckle, but the two contestants in
the art of making faces were too much occupied to notice anything of
their surroundings, and the unknown watcher enjoyed this novel
entertainment for some moments.

At length the preacher said, "Well, Peace, I came over to see Gail.
Where can I find her?"

"In the kitchen, most likely. Come along; I will hunt her up."

The two strolled off toward the house, and a crouching figure in the
hazel thicket followed them until they entered the kitchen door, when it
dropped flat on the ground again and remained there alert and listening
during the conference in the little brown house.

When at last, as dusk was falling, the minister strode down the path to
the gate, a shabby, gray-haired man emerged from the shadows along the
roadside and hurried after him. Hearing footsteps so close by, the young
man halted, expecting to see some of his parishioners or acquaintances
of the village trying to overtake him, and was naturally somewhat
startled when accosted by a stranger.

"I beg your pardon," said Mr. Strong. "I thought it was someone who
wanted me."

"It is," replied the shabby man. "I take it that you are pastor of the
Parker Church,--Mr. Strong, I believe?"

"Yes, sir," answered the preacher, still a little bewildered.

"My name is Donald Campbell--"

"President Campbell of the University?" gasped Mr. Strong in surprise,
involuntarily looking down at the stranger's threadbare clothes.

"As you prefer. Oh, I am in disguise! I will make explanations as we
walk along if you can give me a few moments of your time. I should like
to interview you in regard to our late Brother Peter Greenfield's
family."




CHAPTER XXI

SURPRISES


"Why, Gail, what are you doing?" asked Faith one cold, dull November
day, as she hurried into the kitchen from her village trip, and found
the older sister picking two plump hens.

"Can't you see?" smiled the girl, glancing up from her task with an
excited, happy sparkle in her eyes.

"Yes, I can see, but what is the occasion? Has Peace made another raid
on the hen-house with poison or rat-traps? I shouldn't suppose we could
afford chicken unless by accident. Thanksgiving is more than two weeks
off."

"What day is tomorrow? Am I the only one who remembers?"

"November tenth--your birthday! Oh, Gail, it had slipped my mind for the
minute! No wonder you are getting up a celebration if everyone forgets
like that."

"Oh, it isn't on account of the birthday, Faith; that just happened.
It's the mortgage--"

"Of course, I knew it was due soon, but the relief at being able to get
the money made me overlook the exact date, I guess. So that is the cause
of your excitement!"

"Partly, and then we are to have company for dinner, too."

"Who?" demanded Faith, again surprised.

"Mr. and Mrs. Strong and Glen and Mrs. Grinnell."

"What in the world will we do with them all? Eight is a tight fit for
our dining-room."

"It will crowd us a little, but I have it all planned nicely. Glen must
sit in his daddy's lap--he often does at home when they have company and
haven't room at the table for his high-chair--and of course I will wait
on the people, so there will be room for all."

"Of course you _won't_ wait on the people! What waiting there is to
attend to I shall look after. You are mistress of this house. Oh, I
can't help hugging myself every other minute to think Mr. Strong was
able to get the money for the mortgage and we won't have to leave this
dear little brown house after all."

"Do you care so much?" asked Gail, with such a curious wistfulness in
her voice that Faith stopped her ecstatic prancing to study the thin,
flushed face.

"I should say I do!" she exclaimed emphatically. "Someway, in these last
six months it has grown ever so much dearer than I ever dreamed it
could. I used to think I hated farm life, and it fretted me because we
couldn't live in Pendennis or Martindale, and have things like other
folks. I did want a piano so much, instead of a worn-out, wheezy old
organ."

"Wouldn't you still like all that?" questioned the older girl, keeping
her eyes fixed on the half-picked fowl in her lap, as if afraid of
betraying some delightful secret.

"Oh, yes, indeed! But I gave up thinking about such things a long time
ago. The farm is all we have, and there is the mortgage to pay on that;
so I just shut up my high-falutin notions, as Mrs. Grinnell calls them,
and mean to be happy doing my part in the home. I have wasted too much
time already."

"You have done your part splendidly," cried Gail with brimming eyes,
letting the chicken slip unnoticed from her hands as she threw one arm
around Faith's waist; "and now that--" She bit her tongue just in time
to keep the wonderful secret from tumbling off, and flushed furiously.

"And now that what?" questioned the other girl, without the faintest
trace of suspicion in her voice.

"Now that this hard year is over, we are going to do a little
celebrating even if we can't afford it," answered Gail, thinking
rapidly. "Will you make a caramel cake for our dinner? Mrs. Grinnell is
so fond of it, and I know it will hit the right spot with the minister.
It was his suggestion that he tell--" Again she stopped in confusion.

"About the mortgage money," Faith finished. "Well, he certainly has
earned the right. We have a lot to thank him for. Do you know who is
loaning the money, or is that still a secret from you, too?"

"No, Mr. Strong told me, but he wants the privilege of telling the rest
of you, so I promised to keep still."

"Oh!" There was a long pause, during which both girls busied themselves
with the chickens; and then Faith ventured the question, "Is it Judge
Abbott?" Gail smilingly shook her head. "Nor Dr. Bainbridge?" Again the
brown head shook. "Then it is Mrs. Grinnell. I thought of her in the
first place--"

"You are wrong again. All the money she has is tied up in her farm and
in the house in Martindale."

"Is it anyone in town?"

"No."

Faith was plainly puzzled. "Man or woman?"

"Both," answered Gail after a slight hesitation.

"Do I know them?"

"About as well as I do."

"Where do they live?"

"In Martindale."

"Who can it be?" pondered the girl.

"You might guess all night and never get it right," laughed Gail. "You
better give it up. Tomorrow is time enough for little girls to know."

"For little girls to know what?" demanded Peace, as the noisy quartette
burst breathlessly in from school.

"What we are to have for dinner tomorrow night," answered Gail, glancing
warningly at Faith.

"Tomorrow night? We have dinner at noon."

"Tomorrow we don't. We'll have lunch at noon and dinner in the evening."

"Bet there's comp'ny coming!" shouted the smaller girls.

"Who?" asked Hope, almost as much excited.

"The minister and his family, and Mrs. Grinnell."

"What for?" questioned Cherry, for company was rare at the little brown
house.

"Why, to eat up those chickens, of course," answered Peace. "Will there
be enough to go around? Hadn't I better hack the head off from another?"

"Don't you fret! Mike weighed the hens after he killed them, and one is
a seven-pounder, and the other weighs eight. That surely ought to be
enough to satisfy your appetites."

"Well, I bony a drumstick! There'll be four this time."

"Yes, but suppose we have to wait," suggested Cherry. "The others may
eat them all up."

"Oh, Gail, must we wait?" cried Peace in alarm, suddenly remembering how
tiny the dining-room was.

"No, dear, there will be room for all," answered the mother-sister. "But
I shall expect all of you to be little ladies and not quarrel over
drumsticks or wishbones. One's guests must always be served first, you
know."

"Isn't it too bad," sighed the child pensively, "that we can't be our
own guests sometimes and have just the piece we want?"

"You ought to be thankful to have any part of it," Faith spoke up. "If
company wasn't coming, we shouldn't have killed the hens."

"I _am_ as thankful as I can be," answered Peace, brightening visibly.
"Cherry, come help me scour the silver. I forgot it last night, and if
comp'ny is coming, we want everything fine. Besides, the time goes
faster when you're busy, and already I can hardly wait for tomorrow
night to come. Seems 's if it never would get here with those roasted
hens."

But in due time the eventful night arrived, and with it the select
company who were to join in the little celebration. With eager, shining
eyes, Peace ushered in the guests, who chanced to come all together, and
as she relieved them of their wraps and led them into the shabby parlor,
she chattered excitedly.

"You don't like drumsticks the best, do you, Mr. Strong? And neither
does Mrs. Grinnell. I heard her say so lots of times. She likes the
wings. I want something that ain't so skinny. That's why I always choose
drumsticks. There are four in this affair--four drumsticks, I mean. You
didn't think I meant comp'ny, did you? Each hen had two legs, you know;
but there are nine people to eat, counting Glen, though, of course, he
is too little for such things yet; and the drumsticks won't anywhere
near go around, s'posing every one of you should want one. When we have
only one hen, Cherry and Allee and me always fight over who is to have
the drumsticks. Last time Gail settled it by eating one herself, and
giving the other to Hope. That won't happen today, though, 'cause there
is company."

"Aren't you giving away family secrets?" interrupted Mrs. Grinnell,
trying to look severe.

"Oh, no! You already know about it, and the minister ain't s'prised at
anything. I just thought I'd speak about it, 'cause I've bonied one
drumstick myself, if someone else doesn't eat them all up first. And
say, folks, if any of you get a wishbone in your meat, will you save it
for me? Cherry's making a c'lection and has six already. I haven't but
the one I asked Mr. Hartman for, and they make the cutest penwipers for
Christmas. Supper--dinner is 'most ready, I guess. Gail made _lots_ of
stuffing--dressing, I mean. And Faith's cake is just fine, and the
custard pies are the beautifulest she ever made. They are all extra,
'cause you are here. We don't often get such nice things to eat, but
this is a special 'casion. When supper is over the rest of the girls
will help me do the talking, but now they are every one busy except
Allee and me, and Allee's getting dressed. There's someone at the door.
I hope it ain't more comp'ny. S'posing it is, wouldn't that be the worst
luck,--the very night we have roast chicken!"

Before Peace could reach the door to see who was there, however, Mr.
Strong swung it wide open, and reaching out into the dusk, drew in a
sweet-faced, motherly, old lady with silvery hair, and the familiar
tall, gray man of the broker's office, exclaiming in his hearty, boyish
fashion, "Mrs. Campbell, Doctor, I am so glad you have come! I was
beginning to fear you had missed the place."

"Missed the place? Now, Brother Strong, I am insulted,--after the number
of times I have been here! Good evening, ladies. Mother, I want you to
meet Mrs. Strong and Mrs. Grinnell. Hello, Peace, where is--"

"Have you come for dinner?" demanded that young lady, with frigid
dignity, wondering where she had seen that kindly face before, and
secretly wishing they had delayed their coming until a more convenient
time.

"Yes, I have," he answered decidedly, "and I am as hungry as a bear!"

"Oh, dear," thought Peace, "there goes a drumstick! Hungry folks always
want them." But though her face lengthened, she did not voice such
sentiments, and started for the kitchen, saying, "I must tell Gail, so's
she'll set you a plate for sup--dinner. Is that lady going to stay?"

"That lady is my wife. If you have any fault to find with us for
dropping in unannounced, just scrap it out with Brother Strong, for he
invited us."

"_I'm_ not finding fault," Peace answered haughtily, turning once more
toward the door, "but there's no telling what Faith will do. I better
warn them now."

"And at the same time you might tell Abigail that someone in the parlor
wants to see her," laughed the genial voice.

Peace disappeared through the door like a flash, and they heard her
shrill voice call, "Oh, Gail, Faith, there are some folks here for
supper what weren't invited. Do you s'pose there is hen enough now? And,
oh, yes, he wants to see you right away, Gail!"

The oldest sister paused in the act of lifting the beautifully browned
birds from their nest of dressing, dropped the carving set, shoved the
pan back into the oven, and with flushed cheeks and glowing eyes,
hurried for the parlor with such a buoyant step that the other sisters
followed wonderingly. She paused an instant in the doorway, smiled at
the little company within, and then straight to the white-haired lady
she went, and kissed her, saying happily, "I have never seen you before,
Mrs. Campbell, but I shall love you dearly."

"Not that, Gail," tenderly answered the stranger, holding the tall girl
close. "Call me Grandma."

"And me Grandpa," added the gray man, drawing Gail out of the woman's
arms and kissing her blushing cheek.

"Now she'll give him a drumstick sure," sighed Peace; "and s'posing he
should ask for four!"

"This is Faith, the baker and my right-hand man," she heard Gail saying,
"and Hope, our sunbeam; Charity, the scholar; and Peace, the--"

"Mischief-maker, heart captivator, and worth her weight in gold,"
finished the familiar voice which Peace could not quite place in her
memory. "Kiss me!"

Passively she allowed him to embrace her as he had greeted the other
sisters, and then squirming out of his arms, she backed into a corner,
where she frowned impartially on the excited group, all talking at once,
while she tried to puzzle out how this man could be "Grandpa" when all
her own relatives had long since been carried away by the angels.

"I'll bet he is a make-believe," she told herself; "and he's got them
all fooled proper. Maybe he wants the farm, seeing old Skinflint didn't
get it. I am going to ask Mrs. Grinnell. She had sense enough to run
when the kissing began."

Peace slipped noiselessly through the nearby door, and fled to the
kitchen, where their kind neighbor was busy dishing up the forgotten
dinner, demanding, "Is he really a grandpa we didn't know anything
about, or is he a make-believe _frog_?"

"Make-believe frog!" echoed matter-of-fact Mrs. Grinnell. "Do you mean
fraud? Well, he certainly ain't a fraud, Peace Greenfield! He's a big
man. Everyone in the state knows him, pretty near. He is Dr. Campbell of
the University. 'Tisn't every little girl that can have an
adopted--Peace, I am afraid you and Cherry will have to wait until the
rest are through eating."

"That's where you are mistaken," returned Peace with energy. "Gail said
only last night that there was room for all."

"But she wasn't expecting the Campbells for supper."

"Oh, dear, if that ain't always the way! Gail, must I wait?"

Gail had just hurriedly entered the kitchen, fearful lest the forgotten
dinner was spoiled, but seeing the great bowl of gravy on the table, and
Mrs. Grinnell busy mashing the potatoes, she sighed in relief and
stopped to answer, "I am afraid you must, dear."

"After you said we wouldn't have to?"

"I didn't look for Grandpa and Grandma Campbell until later, Peace. We
can't ask _them_ to wait."

"Faith and Hope might for once. They _never_ have to!"

"Faith is to serve dinner, and Hope is needed at the table."

"Which I s'pose means Cherry and me ain't needed," cried the
disappointed child.

"Peace! I am ashamed of such a little pig."

"It ain't piggishness, Gail. I don't want a whole hen, I want just a
drumstick," protested Peace, with two real tears in her eyes.

"Oh, dear, now we are in for a scene," sighed the older girl, anxious to
avert the storm. "Now be reasonable, Peace. If you will wait like a good
little girl, you shall have a drumstick. Look at Cherry,--she doesn't
make a fuss at all. You will be sorry by and by if you cry and get your
eyes all red."

"Is there to be a s'prise?" asked Peace in animated curiosity.

"Yes, _such_ a splendid one!"

"I'm not going to cry, Gail. Those two tears just got loose 'fore I knew
it. I will stay in the parlor with Cherry all right, but don't take too
long a time eating dinner, and _don't_ forget my drumstick."

With this parting warning she flew back into the front room and
announced, "Dinner is ready, folkses! Faith, tell them where to sit; and
say, you all better eat fast, 'cause Gail says there is a big s'prise
coming."

Slamming the door behind them as they filed out into the dining-room,
she sat down in the nearest chair and faced Cherry with a droll look of
resignation, saying, "Well, Charity Greenfield, how do you like being
one of the children and having to wait every time we have comp'ny? When
I have a family of my own, I'll make the visitors do the waiting."

"I don't mind it much," answered Cherry, serenely. "There is a heap of
victuals cooked. Mrs. Grinnell said she guessed we must have been
expecting a regiment."

Peace sniffed the air hungrily, rose with deliberation from the rocker,
tiptoed to the door, opened it a crack and peeked out at the merry
diners. Then she let go of the knob with a jerk, wheeled toward Cherry
and whispered, "Just as I 'xpected! That man _has_ got a drumstick and
he just gave Allee one. He's stuffing her for all he's worth. First
thing we know, she will be sick."

"Yes, and you banged that door, too, so they must have heard you," said
Cherry indignantly.

"Maybe 'twill hurry them up. I don't see _how_ I can wait."

"Get a book and read. Then the time will seem shorter."

Peace rocked idly back and forth a few turns, patching her companion in
misery, who seemed so absorbed in her story that even the thoughts of no
dinner did not disturb her; then she stalked over to the battered
bookcase, drew out a big, green-covered book which evidently had been
often read, for the binding was in rags, and sat down on the rug to
digest its contents.

"'Bright was the summer of 1296. The war which had desolated Scotland
was then at an end,'" read Peace slowly, spelling out the long,
unfamiliar words and finding it dry reading. She turned the yellowed
pages rapidly in search of pictures, but found none. She skipped several
lines and began again to read, "'But while the courts of Edward, or of
his representatives, were crowded--' oh, dear, what does it mean? There
ain't a mite of sense in using such long words. Cherry, what is this
book about?"

"'Scottish Chiefs?'" said the sister, looking up indifferently. "I don't
know. Ask Hope. She had to read it last year when they studied English
history."

"I thought maybe 'twas about Indians. I didn't know other things were
called chiefs. My, I can smell dinner awfully plain! They've been at it
long enough to have finished, seems to me. I'm going to peek again."

"You better not let that door slam," warned Cherry, "or Gail will be
getting after you."

"I don't intend to. It slipped the other time. There goes another
drumstick!" she wailed dismally, forgetting to speak in whispers; and
the amazed guests beheld a flushed, distressed face popped through the
wide crack of the door, as rebellious Peace called in bitter
indignation, "Remember, all the family haven't had dinner yet, and
chickens don't grow on every bush!"

"Peace!" gasped poor, mortified Gail.

"Ha-ha-ha!" roared the minister, and President Campbell called after the
little figure which had vanished behind the closed door once more, "That
is right, Peace! You needn't stay in there another minute. Here is
plenty of room for you and Cherry in my lap."

The only answer was the sound of a choking sob from the adjoining room,
and the college president started to his feet with remorse in his heart,
pleading, "Let me get her! It's too bad to shut them off there to wait
for us older folks to eat dinner. I know from experience."

But Gail stopped him, saying firmly, "No, it was very naughty of her to
do that, and she can't have any dinner at all now until she has
apologized."

"You are hard on her."

"She must remember her manners. I resign my authority to you and Grandma
in a few hours," she answered laughingly, "but until then she must mind
me."

"_Please_ let me bring them out here with us, anyway," he urged. "She
will apologize; and around the table is a good place for the big
's'prise' she is expecting."

"Very well," she answered reluctantly.

Excusing himself to the little dinner party, he disappeared behind the
parlor door, whispered a few words to the conscience-stricken culprit in
the corner, and in a surprisingly short time reappeared with two smiling
little girls.

Peace's eyes were red, and one lone tear stood on the rosy cheek, but
she marched up to the table, bowed, and said with some embarrassment,
but in all sincerity, "Ladies and gentlemen, I've already told Grandpa,
and he said it was all right--I apologize. I s'pose you are hungry, same
as I, and that's what has kept you busy eating for so long. I shouldn't
have hollered at you from the door like I did, but if you wanted that
drumstick as bad as I do, you'd have hollered, too. Now can I have my
dinner? Cherry, you sit in half of Allee's chair. Faith, Hope will give
you a piece of her place, and I am to have half of Grandpa's. That's all
his plan, so come along, Faith. Please pass me my drumstick. You've
already blessed it, haven't you?"

"Peace!"

"Now, Gail, please don't scold! This is the last day in the little brown
house, you know--"

"What!" burst forth, a chorus of dismayed voices.

"Ain't that _mordige_ settled yet?" demanded Peace.

"Oh, yes. I had a long talk with Mr. Strong, and we settled that
question forever and all time, I hope. Nevertheless, you aren't going to
stay here any longer."

A hush fell over the five younger girls, though Gail was smiling happily
with the rest of the little company, and even Baby Glen seemed to
appreciate the situation, and cooed gleefully, as he pounded the table
with his spoon.

"It's just as I 'xpected," Peace blurted out at length. "I said I bet
you wanted the farm yourself, seeing that old Skin--Mr. Skinflint didn't
get it."

He threw back his head and laughed loud and long; then the old face
sobered, and he said, "No, it isn't that, Peace. We--Grandma and I--want
you to come and live with us. Gail says yes. What is your answer?"

"All of us?" whispered Hope in awestruck tones, remembering with fresh
fear the midnight conference of a few weeks before.

"All of you!"

"Gail, too?"

"Yes, indeed!"

"Haven't you any children yourself?" asked Allee, not exactly
understanding the drift of remarks.

"No, dear. The angels came and took away our two little girlies before
they were as big as you are."

"But six is an awful many to raise at once," sighed Peace. "Do you think
you can do it?"

"I will try if you will come."

"Do you live in Martindale?"

"Yes."

"Is your house big enough?"

"It has ten big rooms and an attic. Won't that do?"

"Y--es. Do you lick?"

"Do I lick?" he echoed in surprise.

"When we are bad, you know."

"Oh! Well, I can, but I don't very often. I am pretty easy to get along
with; but folks have to mind. I am fond of _good_ children."

"I'm _usually_ good. I have been bad today, but I am ever so sorry now.
I always am when it's too late to mend matters. But I don't want you to
think I am always such a pig and have to 'pologize for my dinner. Yes,
I'll come to live with you, and of course the others will. Mrs. Grinnell
says you are an awfully nice man."

"I am sure I thank Mrs. Grinnell," he answered with twinkling eyes,
bowing gravely to the embarrassed lady across the table.

"But what I can't see is how you came to pick us out to take home with
you,--_Mr. Tramp!_" She started to her feet in astonishment, having
suddenly fitted the familiar face into its place in her memory.

"At your service, ma'am."

"Ain't you my tramp?"

"Yes."

"Then you are just fooling about our going to live with, you."

"Not at all. I mean every word of it. Ask Grandma, ask Brother Strong,
ask Gail, any of them."

"But what about the tramp?" she half whispered, still too dazed to
understand.

"That is rather a long story," he smiled, stroking the tight ringlets of
brown on one side of him, and the bright, golden curls on the other. "A
year ago last spring I tried to be ill--play sick, you know; and the
doctor told me a vacation of tramping was what I needed to put me in
tune again. Having some pet theories in regard to the tramp problem of
this country, I decided to take his words literally, so I turned tramp
myself--just for a little time, you see. That is how you saw me first. I
told my wife it was a case of love at first sight, and I became so much
interested in this brave little family that I have kept watch ever
since.

"Here was a family without any father and mother, and there were a
father and mother without any family. You needed the one and we needed
the other. But at first the way didn't seem clear. I was given to
understand that you didn't want to be adopted, and as I found that Gail
was legally old enough to take care of the family, I was just on the
point of preparing to play guardian angel instead of grandfather, when I
chanced upon some old church records telling about your own
grandfather's death. It gave a brief account of his life, and I was
astonished to find that I knew him well,--in fact, as my big brother."

"Tell us about it," pleaded Hope, as he paused reminiscently.

"When I was a little shaver my father was a seaman, captain of a ship;
but his whole fortune consisted of his vessel, his wife and son. Mother
and I often used to go with him on his trips, but for some reason he
left me at home the last time he set sail, and he never came back. New
Orleans was his port. Yellow fever broke out while he was there, and so
far as I have been able to find out, every soul of his crew died of it.
I had been left with a neighbor who had her hands full looking after her
own children; so, when word came that my parents were both dead, she
sent for the town officers, and told them I must go to the poor-farm. I
was only about the size of Allee, here, but I knew that the poor-farm
was a place much dreaded, and rather than be taken there, I tried to run
away. Your grandfather found me. He was one of our nearest neighbors and
knew me well, so when I sobbed out the whole terrible story into his
sympathetic ears, he adopted me on the spot. He wasn't more than a
dozen years old himself, but he had a heart big enough to take in the
whole world, and when he had coaxed me home with him and told his mother
about my misfortune, I knew I was safe. They would never send me away
again. So Hiram Allen became my big brother, and the Allen home was mine
for ten long years. Then an uncle of mine whom everyone had thought was
dead put in appearance and took me to sea on a long voyage which covered
the greater part of four years. When I returned, Mother and Father Allen
were dead and the younger fry had gone West,--no one seemed to know
where. Then and there I completely lost sight of them, and it was only
by chance that I--"

"Grandpa's name wasn't Hi Allen," mused Faith aloud, with a puzzled look
in her eyes. "It was Greenfield, just like ours."

"Yes; that is one reason, I suppose, why I never found my big brother of
my boyhood days. You see, he had a stepfather. His own parent was
drowned at sea when he was a tiny baby, and his mother married again; so
he was known all over the place as Hi Allen instead of Hi Greenfield,
which was his real name. When he grew to manhood and entered the
ministry he decided to take his own name. But, though I dimly remembered
having heard people say that Mr. Allen wasn't Hi's own father, I never
heard his real name spoken, to my knowledge, and I never once thought
of the possibility of his assuming it in place of his stepfather's.

"When I discovered your grandfather's identity only a few days ago, the
way seemed suddenly open to me. Hi Allen had shared his home with me
when I was an orphan; I would share my home with his little
granddaughters, alone in the world and in trouble,--for by this time I
had heard about the mortgage and the battle being fought in the little
brown house to keep the family together. Mothering this big brood is too
great a task for Gail. She needs mothering herself. We want to adopt
you, mother and I. Will you let us; for the sake of the dear grandfather
who did so much for me?"

His face was so full of yearning tenderness that tears came to the eyes
of the older members of the queer little party, and even the children
had to swallow hard.

"I have talked the matter over with Gail, and she agrees if the rest of
you will consent. I am not a millionaire, but we are pretty well fixed
in a material way and can give you a great many pleasures and advantages
that the little town of Parker can never offer. There are fine schools
in the city, and college for Gail. We have a piano and violin and all
sorts of music, a horse and buggy, a big barn, and a splendid yard in a
nice locality, with plenty of room for tennis or any other kind of
gymnastics. Maybe some day there will be an automobile--"

"I don't care about pianos and nautomobiles," interrupted Peace. "It's
the kind of people you are that I am thinking about. Mrs. Grinnell says
you're the president of a big college and everyone knows you. If that's
so, you ought to be pretty nice, I sh'd think. _I_ like you, anyhow, and
I b'lieve you'll like us, too. But I'm an awful case, even when I don't
mean to be. Maybe you would rather--didn't I--weren't you--I saw you in
Swift & Smart's store!"

"Yes, my lady! Twice in the city I have seen you and Allee, and both
times I thought surely you knew me, but I don't believe you did."

"No, I didn't. I 'member now. It was you who gave us that gold money
when we were selling flowers. But you look different with new clothes on
and a clean face."

"Why, you little rascal! Wasn't my face clean when I came here to get
something to eat?"

"It might have been, but it was prickly looking with the mustache all
over your chin, and I like you lots better this way. I almost didn't
know you the night you got supper for us, either."

"And the rice burned."

"And I broke Bossy's leg and you sent us Queenie to take her place, and
Faith said I was worse than Jack of the Bean Stalk, and--I bet you _are_
the fellow that pinned the money to the gatepost and grain sacks! Now,
aren't you?"

"I am afraid I am."

"You told me once before that you weren't."

"No, I didn't. I just asked you if it wouldn't be a queer kind of
_tramp_ who could do such a thing. Isn't that what I said?"

"Y--es," she finally acknowledged. Then the puzzled frown in her
forehead smoothed itself away and she wheeled toward the oldest sister
with the triumphant shout, "There, Gail, didn't I tell you he was a
prince in disgus--disguise? Now ain't you sorry you didn't spend the
money? She has got it all saved away yet. I must kiss you for that,
Grandpa, even if it didn't do us any good." She threw her arms,
drumstick and all, about his neck and gave him a greasy smack,
immediately rubbing her lips with the back of one hand.

"Aha! That's no fair," he protested. "You rubbed that off."

"No, I didn't. I just rubbed it in. Thank you, I don't care for any pie
tonight. Somehow this drumstick filled me up full. I can't eat a bite
more. Have you been waiting all this time for me? Well, let's go back
into the parlor then, and do the rest of our talking. I've sat on the
tip edge of nothing until I am tired. There's more space in the front
room."

"Do you know, Peace Greenfield," cried Mr. Campbell, pretending to feel
insulted at her intimation that he had not given her a large enough
share of his chair, "the first time I ever called at your house, I
found you sitting on the gatepost,--the _gatepost_, mind you,--about so
square," measuring with his hands; "and just as I turned in from the
road, you began to sing, 'The Campbells are coming, oho, oho!' What kind
of a reception do you call that? And tonight you weren't even going to
give me any supper."

"Oh," she hastily assured him, "I didn't mean you by that song. I used
to think that the Campbells were little striped bugs that eat up the
cucumber plants, and the very morning that you came here for breakfast I
found two in the garden. What are you laughing at? I know better now,
but I truly didn't have a notion what your name was then. You must have
known I didn't. But I am awfully glad you came and that you kept coming
even when I was bad and made you work so hard. I am sorry, but never
mind, I am _deformed_ now."

"Deformed, child? Where?"

"Right here in my heart! I am going to be as good as gold all the time
after this. I think the angels must have sent you. We've always wanted a
first-class grandfather and grandmother, but we never 'xpected to get
'em until we found our own inside the Gates some day. Just the same, I
spoke to God about it, and He probably had the angels hunt you up. So I
have _deformed_ and now I'll be real good. I'm truly sorry I was such a
selfish pig about wanting a drumstick tonight. I s'pose that's why the
drumstick filled me up so quick and didn't leave any room for pie.
Custard is my favorite."

"Perhaps that is the reason," he agreed, quite as serious as she. "We
always are happiest when we are unselfish. Now, let's forget all about
the badness and just remember the goodness. I have some of the most
splendid plans for what we shall do when I have my six girls at home
with me. What beautiful times we shall have, mother!"

"How can we ever thank them?" whispered bright-eyed Gail to Mrs. Strong,
under cover of the lively conversation at the other end of the table.

"By loving them," promptly answered the little woman, offering up a
prayer of thanksgiving that the brave little orphan band had found such
a beautiful home. "They are noble people and have hungered all their
lives for just that very thing."

"But love seems such a little thing to give for the blessings we shall
enjoy from their hands."

"Ah, my dear, that is where you are mistaken, Love is _everything_."


Upon a small station on one of the transcontinental lines winding among
the mountains far above the level of the sea, the burning rays of the
noonday sun fell so fiercely that the few buildings seemed ready to
ignite from the intense heat. A season of unusual drought had added to
the natural desolation of the scene. Mountains and foot-hills were
blackened by smouldering fires among the timber, while a dense pall of
smoke entirely hid the distant ranges from view. Patches of sage-brush
and bunch grass, burned sere and brown, alternated with barren stretches
of sand from which piles of rubble rose here and there, telling of
worked-out and abandoned mines. Occasionally a current of air stole
noiselessly down from the canyon above, but its breath scorched the
withered vegetation like the blast from a furnace. Not a sound broke the
stillness; life itself seemed temporarily suspended, while the very air
pulsated and vibrated with the heat, rising in thin, quivering columns.

Suddenly the silence was broken by the rapid approach of the stage from
a distant mining camp, rattling noisily down the street, followed by a
slight stir within the apparently deserted station. Whirling at
breakneck pace around a sharp turn, it stopped precipitately, amid a
blinding cloud of dust, to deposit its passengers at the depot.

One of these, a young man of about five-and-twenty, arose with some
difficulty from the cramped position which for seven weary hours he had
been forced to maintain, and, with sundry stretchings and shakings of
his superb form, seemed at last to pull himself together. Having secured
his belongings from out the pile of miscellaneous luggage thrown from
the stage upon the platform, he advanced towards the slouching figure of
a man just emerging from the baggage-room, his hands thrust deep in his
trousers pockets, his mouth stretched in a prodigious yawn, the arrival
of the stage having evidently awakened him from his siesta.

"How's the west-bound--on time?" queried the young man rather shortly,
but despite the curtness of his accents there was a musical quality in
the ringing tones.

Before the cavernous jaws could close sufficiently for reply, two
distant whistles sounded almost simultaneously.

"That's her," drawled the man, with a backward jerk of his thumb over
his shoulder in the direction of the sound; "she's at Blind Man's Pass;
be here in about fifteen minutes."

The young man turned and sauntered to the rear end of the platform,
where he paused for a few moments; then, unconscious of the scrutiny of
his fellow-passengers, he began silently pacing up and down, being in no
mood for conversation with any one. Every bone in his body ached and his
head throbbed with a dull pain, but these physical discomforts, which he
attributed to his long and wearisome stage ride, caused him less
annoyance than did the fact that he had lost several days' time, besides
subjecting himself to numerous inconveniences and hardships, on what he
now denominated a "fool's errand."

An expert mineralogist and metallurgist, he had been commissioned by a
large syndicate of eastern capitalists to come west, primarily to
examine a certain mine recently offered for sale, and secondarily to
secure any other valuable mining properties which might happen to be on
the market. A promoter, whose acquaintance he had formed soon after
leaving St. Paul, had poured into his ear such fabulous tales of a mine
of untold wealth which needed but the expenditure of a few thousands to
place it upon a dividend-paying basis, that, after making due allowance
for optimism and exaggeration, he had thought it might be worth his
while to stop off and investigate. The result of the investigation had
been anything but satisfactory for either the promoter or the expert.

He was the more annoyed at the loss of time because of a telegram handed
him just before his departure from St. Paul, which he now drew forth,
and which read as follows:

     "Parkinson, expert for M. and M. on trail. Knows you as our
     representative, but only by name. Lie low and block him if
     possible.
                                             "BARNARD."

He well understood the import of the message. The "M. and M." stood for
a rival syndicate of enormous wealth, and the fact that its expert was
also on his way west promised lively competition in the purchase of the
famous Ajax mine.

"Five days," he soliloquized, glancing at the date of the message,
which he now tore into bits, together with two or three letters of
little importance. "I have lost my start and am now likely to meet this
Parkinson at any stage of the game. However, he has never heard of John
Darrell, and that name will answer my purpose as well as any among
strangers. I'll notify Barnard when I reach Ophir."

His plans for the circumvention of Parkinson were now temporarily cut
short by the appearance of the "double-header" rounding a curve and
rapidly approaching--a welcome sight, for the heat and blinding glare of
light were becoming intolerable.

Only for a moment the ponderous engines paused, panting and quivering
like two living, sentient monsters; the next, with heavy, labored
breath, as though summoning all their energies for the task before them,
they were slowly ascending the steadily increasing grade, moment by
moment with accelerated speed plunging into the very heart of the
mountains, bearing John Darrell, as he was to be henceforth known, to a
destiny of which he had little thought, but which he himself had,
unconsciously, helped to weave.

An hour later, on returning to the sleeper after an unsuccessful attempt
at dining, Darrell sank into his seat, and, leaning wearily back,
watched with half-closed eyes the rapidly changing scenes through which
he was passing, for the time utterly oblivious to his surroundings.
Gigantic rocks, grotesque in form and color, flashed past; towering
peaks loomed suddenly before him, advancing, receding, disappearing, and
reappearing with the swift windings and doublings of the train; massive
walls of granite pressed close and closer, seeming for one instant a
threatening, impenetrable barrier, the next, opening to reveal glimpses
of distant billowy ranges, their summits white with perpetual snow. The
train had now reached a higher altitude, and breezes redolent of pine
and fir fanned his throbbing brow, their fragrance thronging his mind
with memories of other and far-distant scenes, until gradually the bold
outlines of cliff and crag grew dim, and in their place appeared a cool,
dark forest through which flecks of golden sunlight sifted down upon the
moss-grown, flower-strewn earth; a stream singing beneath the pines,
then rippling onward through meadows of waving green; a wide-spreading
house of colonial build half hidden by giant trees and clinging
rose-vines, and, framed among the roses, a face, strong, tender, sweet,
crowned with silvered hair--one of the few which sorrow makes
beautiful--which came nearer and nearer, bending over him with a
mother's blessing; and then he slept.

The face of the sleeper, with its clear-cut, well-moulded features,
formed a pleasing study, reminding one of a bit of unfinished carving,
the strong, bold lines of which reveal the noble design of the
sculptor--the thing of wondrous beauty yet to be--but which still lacks
the finer strokes, the final touch requisite to bring it to perfection.
Strength of character was indicated there; an indomitable will that
would bend the most adverse conditions to serve its own masterful
purpose and make of obstacles the paving-stones to success; a mind
gifted with keen perceptive faculties, but which hitherto had dealt
mostly with externals and knew little of itself or of its own powers.
Young, with splendid health and superabundant vitality, there had been
little opportunity for introspection or for the play of the finer,
subtler faculties; and of the whole gamut of susceptibilities, ranging
from exquisite suffering to ecstatic joy, few had been even awakened.
His was a nature capable of producing the divinest harmonies or the
wildest discords, according to the hand that swept the strings as yet
untouched.

For more than an hour Darrell slept. He was awakened by the murmur of
voices near him, confused at first, but growing more distinct as he
gradually recalled his surroundings, until, catching the name of
"Parkinson," he was instantly on the alert.

"Yes," a pleasant voice was saying, "I understand the Ajax is for sale
if the owners can get their price, but they don't want less than a cold
million for it, and it's my opinion they'll find buyers rather scarce at
that figure when it comes to a show down."

"Well, I don't know; that depends," was the reply. "The price won't
stand in the way with my people, if the mine is all right. They can hand
over a million--or two, for that matter--as easily as a thousand, if the
property is what they want, but they've got to know what they're buying.
That's what I'm out here for."

Taking a quiet survey of the situation, Darrell found that the section
opposite his own--which, upon his return from the dining-car, had
contained only a motley collection of coats and grips--was now occupied
by a party of three, two of whom were engaged in animated conversation.
One of the speakers, who sat facing Darrell, was a young man of about
two-and-twenty, whose self-assurance and assumption of worldly wisdom,
combined with a boyish impetuosity, he found vastly amusing, while at
the same time his frank, ingenuous eyes and winning smile of genuine
friendliness, revealing a nature as unsuspecting and confiding as a
child's, appealed to him strangely and drew him irresistibly towards the
young stranger. The other speaker, whom Darrell surmised to be
Parkinson, was considerably older and was seated facing the younger
man, hence his back was towards Darrell; while the third member of the
party, and by far the eldest, of whose face Darrell had a perfect
profile view, although saying little, seemed an interested listener.

The man whom Darrell supposed to be Parkinson inquired the quickest way
of reaching the Ajax mine.

"Well, you see it's this way," replied the young fellow. "The Ajax is on
a spur that runs out from the main line at Ophir, and the train only
runs between there and Ophir twice a week, Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Let's see, this is Wednesday; we'll get into Ophir to-morrow, and you'll
have to wait over until Saturday, unless you hire a rig to take you out
there, and that's pretty expensive and an awfully rough jaunt besides."

"I don't mind the expense," retorted the other, "but I don't know as I
care to go on any jaunts over your mountain roads when there's no
special necessity for it; I can get exercise enough without that."

"I tell you what, Mr. Parkinson," said the young fellow, cordially, "you
and your friend here, Mr. Hunter,"--Darrell started at the mention of
the latter name,--"had better wait over till Saturday, and in the mean
time I'll take you people out to Camp Bird, as we call it, and show you
the Bird Mine; that's our mine, you know, and I tell you she is a
'bird,' and no mistake. You'll be interested in looking her over, though
I'll tell you beforehand she's not for sale."

"Do I understand that you have an interest in this remarkable mine, Mr.
Whitcomb?" Parkinson inquired, a tinge of amusement in his tone.

"Not in the way you mean; that is, not yet, though there's no telling
how soon I may have if things turn out as I hope," and the boyish cheek
flushed slightly. "But I know what I'm talking about all the same.
My uncle, D. K. Underwood, is a practical mining man of nearly thirty
years' experience, and what he doesn't know about mines and mining isn't
worth knowing. He's interested in a dozen or so of the best mines in the
State, but I don't think he would exchange his half-interest in the Bird
Mine for all his other holdings put together. She's a comparatively new
mine yet, but taking into consideration her depth and the amount of
development, she's the best-paying mine in the State. Here, let me show
you something." And hastily pulling a note-book from his pocket, he took
therefrom a narrow slip of paper which he handed to the expert.

"There's a statement," he continued, "made out by the United States
Assay Office, back here at Galena, that will show you the returns from a
sixty days' run at the Bird mill; what do you think of that?"

Parkinson's face was still invisible to Darrell, but the latter heard a
long, low whistle of surprise. Young Whitcomb looked jubilant.

"They say figures won't lie," he added, in tones of boyish enthusiasm,
"but if you don't believe those figures, I've got the cash right here to
show for it," accompanying the words with a significant gesture.

Parkinson handed the slip to Hunter, then leaned back in his seat,
giving Darrell a view of his profile.

"Sixty days!" he said, musingly. "Seventy-five thousand dollars! I think
I would like to take a look at the Bird Mine! I think I would like to
make Mr. Underwood's acquaintance!"

Whitcomb laughed exultingly. "I'll give you an opportunity to do both if
you'll stop over," he said; "and don't you forget that my uncle can give
you some pointers on the Ajax, for he knows every mine in the State."

Mr. Hunter here handed the slip of paper to Whitcomb. "Young man," he
said, with some severity, gazing fixedly at Whitcomb through his
eye-glasses, "do you mean to say that you are travelling with
seventy-five thousand dollars on your person?"

"Certainly, sir," Whitcomb replied, evidently enjoying the situation.

Mr. Hunter shook his head. "Very imprudent!" he commented. "You are
running a tremendous risk. I wonder that your uncle would permit it!"

"Oh, that's all right," said Whitcomb, confidently. "Uncle usually comes
down himself with the shipments of bullion, and he generally banks the
most of his money there at Galena, but he couldn't very well leave this
time, so he sent me, and as he was going to use considerable money
paying for a lot of improvements we've put in and paying off the men, he
told me to bring back the cash. There's not much danger anyway; the West
isn't as wild nowadays as it used to be."

Handing a second bit of paper to Parkinson, he added: "There's something
else that will interest you; the results of some assays made by the
United States Assay Office on some samples taken at random from a new
strike we made last week. I'll show you some of the samples, too."

"Great Scott!" ejaculated Parkinson, running his eye over the returns.
"You seem to have a mine there, all right!"

"Sure thing! You'll think so when you see it," Whitcomb answered,
fumbling in a grip at his feet.

At sight of the specimens of ore which he produced a moment later, his
two companions became nearly as enthusiastic as himself. Leaning eagerly
forward, they began an inspection of the samples, commenting on their
respective values, while Whitcomb, unfolding a tracing of the workings
of the mine, explained the locality from which each piece was taken, its
depth from the surface, the width and dip of the vein, and other items
of interest.

Darrell, who was carefully refraining from betraying any special
interest in the party across the aisle, soon became aware that he was
not the only interested listener to the conversation. In the section
directly in front of the one occupied by Whitcomb and his companions a
man was seated, apparently engrossed in a newspaper, but Darrell, who
had a three-quarter view of his face, soon observed that he was not
reading, but listening intently to the conversation of the men seated
behind him, and particularly to young Whitcomb's share in it. Upon
hearing the latter's statement that he had with him the cash returns for
the shipment of bullion, Darrell saw the muscles of his face suddenly
grow tense and rigid, while his hands involuntarily tightened their hold
upon the paper. He grew uncomfortable under Darrell's scrutiny, moved
restlessly once or twice, then turning, looked directly into the
piercing dark eyes fixed upon him. His own eyes, which were small and
shifting, instantly dropped, while the dark blood mounted angrily to his
forehead. A few moments later, he changed his position so that Darrell
could not see his face, but the latter determined to watch him and to
give Whitcomb a word of warning at the earliest opportunity.

"Well," said Parkinson, leaning back in his seat after examining the
ores and listening to Whitcomb's outline of their plans for the future
development of the mine, "it seems to me, young man, you have quite a
knowledge of mines and mining yourself."

Whitcomb flushed with pleasure. "I ought to," he said; "there isn't a
man in this western country that understands the business better or has
got it down any finer than my uncle. He may not be able to talk so
glibly or use such high-sounding names for things as you fellows, but he
can come pretty near telling whether a mine will pay for the handling,
and if it has any value he generally knows how to go to work to find
it."

"Well, that's about the 'gist' of the whole business," said Parkinson;
he added: "You say he can give me some 'tips' on the Ajax?"

"He can if he chooses to," laughed Whitcomb, "but you'd better not let
him know that I said so. He'll be more likely to give you information if
you ask him offhand."

"Well," continued Parkinson, "when we get to Ophir, I'll know whether or
not I can stop over. I've heard there's another fellow out here on this
Ajax business; whether he's ahead of me I don't know. I'll make
inquiries when we reach Ophir, and if he hasn't come on the scene yet I
can afford to lay off; if he has, I must lose no time in getting out to
the mine." Parkinson glanced at Hunter, who nodded almost imperceptibly.

"I guess that's the best arrangement we can make at present," said
Parkinson, rising from his seat. "Come and have a smoke with us, Mr.
Whitcomb?"

Whitcomb declined the invitation, and, after Hunter and Parkinson had
left, sat idly turning over the specimens of ore, until, happening to
catch Darrell's eye, he inquired, pleasantly,--

"Are you interested in this sort of thing?"

"In a way, yes," said Darrell, crossing over and taking the seat vacated
by Parkinson. "I'm not what you call a mining man; that is, I've never
owned or operated a mine, but I take a great interest in examining the
different ores and always try to get as much information regarding them
as possible."

Whitcomb at once launched forth enthusiastically upon a description of
the various samples. Darrell, while careful not to show too great
familiarity with the subject, or too thorough a knowledge of ores in
general, yet was so keenly appreciative of their remarkable richness and
beauty that he soon won the boy's heart.

"Say!" he exclaimed, "you had better stop off at Ophir with us; we would
make a mining man of you in less than no time! By the way, how far west
are you travelling?"

"Ophir is my destination at present, though it is uncertain how long I
remain there."

"Long enough, that we'll get well acquainted, I hope. Going into any
particular line of business?"

"No, only looking the country over, for the present."

To divert the conversation from himself, Darrell, by a judicious
question or two, led Whitcomb to speak of the expert.

"Parkinson?" he said with a merry laugh. "Oh, yes, he's one of those
eastern know-it-alls who come out here occasionally to give us fellows a
few points on mines. They're all right, of course, for the men who
employ them, who want to invest their money and wouldn't know a mine if
they saw one; but when they undertake to air their knowledge among these
old fellows who have spent a lifetime in the business, why, they're
likely to get left, that's all. Now, this Parkinson seems to be a pretty
fair sort of man compared with some of them, but between you and me, I'd
wager my last dollar that they'll lose him on that Ajax mine!"

"Why, what's the matter with the Ajax?" Darrell inquired, indifferently.

"Well, as you're not interested in any way, I'm not telling tales out of
school. The Ajax has been a bonanza in its day, but within the last year
or so the bottom has dropped out of the whole thing, and that's the
reason the owners are anxious to sell."

"I hear they ask a pretty good price for the mine."

"Yes, they're trading on her reputation, but that's all past. The mine
is practically worked out. They've made a few good strikes lately, so
that there is some good ore in sight, and this is their chance to sell,
but there are no indications of any permanence. One of our own men was
over there a while ago, and he said there wasn't enough ore in the mine
to keep their mill running full force for more than six months."

"Is this Hunter an expert also?"

"Oh, no; Parkinson said he was a friend of his, just taking the trip for
his health."

Darrell smiled quietly, knowing Hunter to be a member of the syndicate
employing Parkinson, but kept his knowledge to himself.

A little later, when Darrell and Whitcomb left together for the
dining-car, quite a friendship had sprung up between them. There was
that mutual attraction often observed between two natures utterly
diverse. Whitcomb was unaccountably drawn towards the dark-eyed,
courteous, but rather reticent stranger, while his own frank
friendliness and childlike confidence awoke in Darrell's nature a
correlative tenderness and affection which he never would have believed
himself capable of feeling towards one of his own sex.

"I don't know what is the matter with me," said Darrell, as he seated
himself at a table, facing Whitcomb. "My head seems to have a
small-sized stamp-mill inside of it; every bone in my body aches, and my
joints feel as though they were being pulled apart."

Whitcomb looked up quickly. "Are you just from the East, or have you
been out here any time?"

"I stopped for a few days, back here a ways."

"In the mountain country?"

"Yes."

"By George! I believe you've got the mountain fever; there's an awful
lot of it round here this season, and this is just the worst time of
year for an easterner to come out here. But we'll look after you when we
get to Ophir, and bring you round all right."

"Much obliged, but I think I'll be all right after a night's rest,"
Darrell replied, inwardly resolved, upon reaching Ophir, to push on to
the Ajax as quickly as possible, though his ardor was considerably
cooled by Whitcomb's report.

When they left the dining-car the train was stopping at a small station,
and for a few moments the young men strolled up and down the platform. A
dense, bluish-gray haze hung low over the country, rendering the
outlines of even the nearest objects obscure and dim; the western sky
was like burnished copper, and the sun, poised a little above the
horizon, looked like a ball of glowing fire.

Just as the train was about to start Darrell saw the man whose peculiar
actions he had noticed earlier, leave the telegraph office and jump
hastily aboard. Calling Whitcomb's attention as he passed them, he
related his observations of the afternoon and cautioned him against the
man. For an instant Whitcomb looked serious.

"I suppose it was rather indiscreet in me to talk as I did," he said,
"but it can't be helped now. However, I guess it's all right, but I'm
obliged to you all the same."

They passed into the smoker, where Darrell was introduced to Hunter and
Parkinson. In a short time, however, he found himself suffering from
nausea and growing faint and dizzy.

"Gentlemen," he said, "you will have to excuse me. I'm rather off my
base this evening, and I find that smoking isn't doing me any good."

As he rose young Whitcomb sprang instantly to his feet; throwing away
his cigar and linking his arm within Darrell's, he insisted upon
accompanying him to the sleeper, notwithstanding his protests.

"Good-night, Parkinson," he called, cheerily; "see you in the morning!"

He accompanied Darrell to his section; then dropped familiarly into the
seat beside him, throwing one arm affectionately over Darrell's
shoulder, and during the next hour, while the sunset glow faded and the
evening shadows deepened, he confided to this acquaintance of only a few
hours the outlines of his past life and much regarding his hopes and
plans for the future. He spoke of his orphaned boyhood; of the uncle who
had given him a home in his family and initiated him into his own
business methods; of his hope of being admitted at no distant day into
partnership with his uncle and becoming a shareholder in the wonderful
Bird Mine.

"But that isn't all I am looking forward to," he said, in conclusion,
his boyish tones growing strangely deep and tender. "My fondest hope of
all I hardly dare admit even to myself, and I don't know why I am
speaking of it to you, except that I already like you and trust you as I
never did any other man; but you will understand what I mean when you
see my cousin, Kate Underwood."

He paused, but his silence was more eloquent to Darrell than words; the
latter grasped his hand warmly in token that he understood.

"I wish you all that you hope for," he said.

A few moments later Whitcomb spoke with his usual impetuosity. "What am
I thinking of, keeping you up in this way when you are sick and dead
tired! You had better turn in and get all the rest you can, and when we
reach Ophir to-morrow, just remember, my dear fellow, that no hotels
'go.' You'll go directly home with me, where you'll find yourself in
such good hands you'll think sure you're in your own home, and we'll
soon have you all right."

For hours Darrell tossed wearily, unable to sleep. His head throbbed
wildly, the racking pain throughout his frame increased, while a raging
fire seemed creeping through his veins. Not until long past midnight did
he fall into a fitful sleep. Strange fancies surged through his fevered
brain, torturing him with their endless repetition, their seeming
reality. Suddenly he awoke, bewildered, exhausted, oppressed by a vague
sense of impending evil.




_Chapter II_

A NIGHT'S WORK


For a few seconds Darrell tried vainly to recall what had awakened him.
Low, confused sounds occasionally reached his ears, but they seemed part
of his own troubled dreams. The heat was intolerable; he raised himself
to the open window that he might get a breath of cooler air; his head
whirled, but the half-sitting posture seemed to clear his brain, and he
recalled his surroundings. At once he became conscious that the train
was not in motion, yet no sound of trainmen's voices came through the
open window; all was dead silence, and the vague, haunting sense of
impending danger quickened.

Suddenly he heard a muttered oath in one of the sections, followed by an
order, low, but peremptory,--

"No noise! Hand over, and be quick about it!"

Instantly Darrell comprehended the situation. Peering cautiously between
the curtains, he saw, at the forward end of the sleeper, a masked man
with a revolver in each hand, while the mirror behind him revealed
another figure at the rear, masked and armed in like manner. He heard
another order; the man was doing his work swiftly. He thought at once of
young Whitcomb, but no sound came from the opposite section, and he sank
quietly back upon his pillow.

A moment later the curtains were quickly thrust aside, the muzzle of a
revolver confronted Darrell, and the same low voice demanded,--

"Hand out your valuables!"

A man of medium height, wearing a mask and full beard, stood over him.
Darrell quietly handed over his watch and purse, noting as he did so the
man's hands, white, well formed, well kept. He half expected a further
demand, as the purse contained only a few small bills and some change,
the bulk of his money being secreted about the mattress, as was his
habit; but the man turned with peculiar abruptness to the opposite
section, as one who had a definite object in view and was in haste to
accomplish it. Darrell, his faculties alert, observed that the section
in front of Whitcomb's was empty; he recalled the actions of its
occupant on the preceding afternoon, his business later at the telegraph
office, and the whole scheme flashed vividly before his mind. The man
had been a spy sent out by the band now holding the train, and
Whitcomb's money was without doubt the particular object of the hold-up.

Whitcomb was asleep at the farther side of his berth. Leaning slightly
towards him, the man shook him, and his first words confirmed Darrell's
intuitions,--

"Hand over that money, young man, and no fuss about it, either!"

Whitcomb, instantly awake, gazed at the masked face without a word or
movement. Darrell, powerless to aid his friend, watched intently,
dreading some rash act on his part to which his impetuous nature might
prompt him.

Again he heard the low tones, this time a note of danger in them,--

"No fooling! Hand that money over, lively!"

With a spring, as sudden and noiseless as a panther's, Whitcomb grappled
with the man, knocking the revolver from his hand upon the bed. A
quick, desperate, silent struggle followed. Whitcomb suddenly reached
for the revolver; as he did so Darrell saw a flash of steel in the dim
light, and the next instant his friend sank, limp and motionless, upon
the bed.

"Fool!" he heard the man mutter, with an oath.

An involuntary groan escaped from Darrell's lips. Slight as was the
sound, the man heard it and turned, facing him; the latter was screened
by the curtains, and the man, seeing no one, returned to his work, but
that brief glance had revealed enough to Darrell that he knew he could
henceforth identify the murderer among a thousand. In the struggle the
mask had been partially pushed aside, exposing a portion of the man's
face. A scar of peculiar shape showed white against the olive skin,
close to the curling black hair. But to Darrell the pre-eminently
distinguishing characteristic of that face was the eyes. Of the most
perfect steel blue he had ever seen, they seemed, as they turned upon
him in that intense glance, to glint and scintillate like the points of
two rapiers in a brilliant sword play, while their look of concentrated
fury and malignity, more demon-like than human, was stamped ineffaceably
upon his brain.

Having secured as much as he could find of the money, the murderer left
hastily and silently, and a few moments later the guards, after a
warning to the passengers not to leave their berths, took their
departure.

Having partially dressed, Darrell at once sprang across the aisle and
took Whitcomb's limp form in his arms. His heart still beat faintly, but
he was unconscious and bleeding profusely. All had been done so silently
and swiftly that no one outside of Darrell dreamed of murder, and soon
the enforced silence began to be broken by hurried questions and angry
exclamations. A man cursed over the loss of his money and a woman sobbed
hysterically. Suddenly, Darrell's incisive tones rang through the
sleeper.

"For God's sake, see if there is a surgeon aboard! Here is a man
stabbed, dying; don't stop to talk of money when a life is at stake!"

Instantly all thought of personal loss was for the time forgotten, and
half a dozen men responded to Darrell's appeal. When it became known
throughout the train what had occurred, the greatest excitement
followed. Train officials, hurrying back and forth, stopped, hushed and
horror-stricken, beside the section where Darrell sat holding Whitcomb
in his arms. Passengers from the other coaches crowded in, eager to
offer assistance that was of no avail. A physician was found and came
quickly to the scene, who, after a brief examination, silently shook his
head, and Darrell, watching the weakening pulse and shortening gasps,
needed no words to tell him that the young life was ebbing fast.

Just as the faint respirations had become almost imperceptible, Whitcomb
opened his eyes, looking straight into Darrell's eyes with eager
intensity, his face lighted with the winning smile which Darrell had
already learned to love. His lips moved; Darrell bent his head still
lower to listen.

"Kate,--you will see her," he whispered. "Tell her----" but the sentence
was never finished.

Deftly and gently as a woman Darrell did the little which remained to be
done for his young friend, closing the eyes in which the love-light
kindled by his dying words still lingered, smoothing the dishevelled
golden hair, wondering within himself at his own unwonted tenderness.

"An awful pity for a bright young life to go out like that!" said a
voice at his side, and, turning, he saw Parkinson.

"How did it happen?" the latter inquired, recognizing Darrell for the
first time in the dim light.

Briefly Darrell gave the main facts as he had witnessed them, saying
nothing, however, of his having seen the face of the murderer.

"Too bad!" said Parkinson. "He ought never to have made a bluff of that
sort; there were too many odds against him."

"He was impulsive and acted on the spur of the moment," Darrell replied;
adding, in lower tones, "the mistake was in giving one so young and
inexperienced a commission involving so much responsibility and danger."

"You knew of the money, then? Yes, that was bad business for him, poor
fellow! I wonder, by the way, if it was all taken."

At Darrell's suggestion a thorough search was made, which resulted in
the finding of a package containing fifteen thousand dollars which the
thief in his haste had evidently overlooked. This, it was agreed, should
be placed in Darrell's keeping until the arrival of the train at Ophir.

Gradually the crowd dispersed, most of the passengers returning to their
berths. Darrell, knowing that sleep for himself was out of the question,
sought an empty section in another part of the car, and, seating
himself, bowed his head upon his hands. The veins in his temples seemed
near bursting and his usually strong nerves quivered from the shock he
had undergone, but of this he was scarcely conscious. His mind,
abnormally active, for the time held his physical sufferings in
abeyance. He was living over again the events of the past few
hours--events which had awakened within him susceptibilities he had not
known he possessed, which had struck a new chord in his being whose
vibrations thrilled him with strange, undefinable pain. As he recalled
Whitcomb's affectionate familiarity, he seemed to hear again the low,
musical cadences of the boyish tones, to see the sunny radiance of his
smile, to feel the irresistible magnetism of his presence, and it seemed
as though something inexpressibly sweet, of whose sweetness he had
barely tasted, had suddenly dropped out of his life.

His heart grew sick with bitter sorrow as he recalled the look of
mingled appeal and trust which shot from Whitcomb's eyes into his own as
his young life, so full of hope, of ambition, of love, was passing
through the dim portals of an unknown world. Oh, the pity of it! that
he, an acquaintance of but a few hours, should have been the only one to
whom those eyes could turn for their last message of earthly love and
sympathy; and oh, the impotency of any and all human love then!

Never before had Darrell been brought so near the unseen, the
unknown,--always surrounding us, but of which few of us are
conscious,--and for hours he sat motionless, lost in thought, grappling
with problems hitherto unthought of, but which now perplexed and baffled
him at every turn.

At last, with a heavy sigh, he opened his eyes. The gray twilight of
dawn was slowly creeping down from the mountain-tops, dispelling the
shadows; and the light of a new faith, streaming downward

     "From the beautiful, eternal hills
         Of God's unbeginning past,"

was banishing the doubts which had assailed him.

That night had brought to him a revelation of the awful solitude of a
human soul, standing alone on the threshold of two worlds; but it had
also revealed to him the Love--Infinite, Divine--that meets the soul
when human love and sympathy are no longer of avail.




_Chapter III_

"THE PINES"


As the day advanced Darrell grew gradually but steadily worse. After the
excitement of the night had passed a reaction set in; he felt utterly
exhausted and miserable, the pain returned with redoubled violence, and
the fever increased perceptibly from hour to hour.

He was keenly observant of those about him, and he could not but note
how soon the tragedy of the preceding night seemed forgotten. Some
bemoaned the loss of money or valuables; a few, more fortunate, related
how they had outwitted the robbers and escaped with trivial loss, but
only an occasional careless word of pity was heard for the young
stranger who had met so sad a fate. So quickly and completely does one
human atom sink out of sight! It is like the dropping of a pebble in the
sea: a momentary ripple, that is all!

About noon Parkinson, who had sought to while away the tedium of the
journey by an interview with Darrell, became somewhat alarmed at the
latter's condition and went in search of a physician. He returned with
the one who had been summoned to Whitcomb's aid. He was an eastern
practitioner, and, unfortunately for Darrell, was not so familiar with
the peculiar symptoms in his case as a western physician would have
been.

"He has a high fever," he remarked to Parkinson a little later, as he
seated himself beside Darrell to watch the effect of the remedies
administered, "but I do not apprehend any danger. I have given him
something to abate the fever and induce sleep. If necessary, I will
write out a prescription which he can have filled on his arrival at
Ophir, but I think in a few days he will be all right."

They were now approaching the continental divide, the scenery moment by
moment growing in sublimity and grandeur. Darrell soon sank into a
sleep, light and broken at first, but which grew deeper and heavier. For
more than an hour he slept, unconscious that the rugged scenes through
which he was then passing were to become part of his future life; that
each cliff and crag and mountain-peak was to be to him an open book,
whose secrets would leave their indelible impress upon his heart and
brain, revealing to him the breadth and length, the depth and height of
life, moulding his soul anew into nobler, more symmetrical proportions.

At last the rocks suddenly parted, like sentinels making way for the
approaching train, disclosing a broad, sunlit plateau, from which rose,
in gracefully rounded contours, a pine-covered mountain, about whose
base nestled the little city of Ophir, while in the background stretched
the majestic range of the great divide.

A crowd could be seen congregated about the depot, for tidings of the
night's tragedy had preceded the train by several hours, and Whitcomb
from his early boyhood had been a universal favorite in Ophir, while his
uncle was one of its wealthiest, most influential citizens.

As the train slackened speed Parkinson, with a few words to the
physician, hastily left to make arrangements for transportation for
himself, Hunter, and Darrell to a hotel. Amid the noise and confusion
which ensued for the next ten minutes Darrell slept heavily, till,
roused by a gentle shake, he awoke to find the physician bending over
him and heard voices approaching down the now nearly deserted
sleeping-car.

"Yes," said a heavy voice, speaking rapidly, "the conductor wired
details; he said this young man did everything for the boy that could be
done, and stayed by him to the end."

"He did; he stood by him like a brother," Parkinson's voice replied.

"And he is sick, you say? Well, he won't want for anything within my
power to do for him, that's all!"

Parkinson stopped at Darrell's side. "Mr. Darrell," he said, "this is
Mr. Underwood, Whitcomb's uncle, you know; Mr. Underwood, Mr. Darrell."

Darrell rose a little unsteadily; the two men grasped hands and for an
instant neither spoke. Darrell saw before him a tall, powerfully built
man, approaching fifty, whose somewhat bronzed face, shrewd, stern, and
unreadable, was lighted by a pair of blue eyes which once had resembled
Whitcomb's. With a swift, penetrating glance the elder man looked
searchingly into the face of the younger.

"True as steel, with a heart of gold!" was his mental comment; then he
spoke abruptly, and his voice sounded brusque though his face was
working with emotion.

"Mr. Darrell, my carriage is waiting for you outside. You will go home
with me, unless," he added, inquiringly, "you are expecting to meet
friends or acquaintances?"

"No, Mr. Underwood," Darrell replied, "I am a stranger here, but, much
as I appreciate your kindness, I could not think of intruding upon your
home at such a time as this."

"Porter," said Mr. Underwood, with the air of one accustomed to command,
"take this gentleman's luggage outside, and tell them out there that it
is to go to 'The Pines;' my men are there and they will look after it;"
then, turning to Darrell, he continued, still more brusquely:

"This train pulls out in three minutes, so you had better prepare to
follow your luggage. You don't stop in Ophir outside of my house, and I
don't think you'll travel much farther for a while. You look as though
you needed a bed and good nursing more than anything else just now."

"I have given him a prescription, sir," said the physician, "that I
think will set him right if he gets needed rest and sleep."

"Humph!" responded Mr. Underwood, gruffly; "he'll get whatever he needs,
you can depend on that. You gentlemen assist him out of the car; I'll go
and despatch a messenger to the house to have everything in readiness
for him there."

At the foot of the car steps Darrell parted from the physician and,
leaning on Parkinson's arm, slowly made his way through the crowd to the
carriage, where Mr. Underwood awaited him. Parkinson having taken leave,
Mr. Underwood assisted the young man into the carriage. A spasm of pain
crossed Darrell's face as he saw, just ahead of them, waiting to precede
them on the homeward journey, a light wagon containing a stretcher
covered with a heavy black cloth, a line of stalwart young fellows drawn
up on either side, and he recalled Whitcomb's parting words on the
previous night,--"When we reach Ophir to-morrow, you'll go directly home
with me."

This was observed by Mr. Underwood, who remarked a moment later as he
seated himself beside Darrell and they started homeward,--

"This is a sad time to introduce you to our home and household, Mr.
Darrell, but you will find your welcome none the less genuine on that
account."

"Mr. Underwood," said the young man, in a troubled voice, "this seems to
me the most unwarrantable intrusion on my part to accept your
hospitality at such a time----"

Before he could say more, Mr. Underwood placed a firm, heavy hand on his
knee.

"You stood by my poor boy, Harry, to the last, and that is enough to
insure you a welcome from me and mine. I'm only doing what Harry himself
would do if he were here."

"As to what I did for your nephew, God knows it was little enough I
could do," Darrell answered, bitterly. "I was powerless to defend him
against the fatal blow, and after that there was no help for him."

"Did you see him killed?"

"Yes."

"Tell me all, everything, just as it occurred."

Mr. Underwood little knew the effort it cost Darrell in his condition to
go over the details of the terrible scene, but he forced himself to give
a clear, succinct, calm statement of all that took place. The elder man
sat looking straight before him, immovable, impassive, like one who
heard not, yet in reality missing nothing that was said. Not until
Darrell repeated Whitcomb's dying words was there any movement on his
part; then he turned his head so that his face was hidden and remained
motionless and silent as before. At last he inquired,--

"Did he leave no message for me?"

"He mentioned only your daughter, Mr. Underwood; he evidently had some
message for her which he was unable to give."

A long silence followed. Darrell, utterly exhausted, sank back into a
corner of the carriage. The slight movement roused Mr. Underwood; he
looked towards Darrell, whose eyes were closed, and was shocked at his
deathly pallor. He said nothing, however, for Darrell was again sinking
into a heavy stupor, but watched him with growing concern, making no
attempt to rouse him until the carriage left the street and began
ascending a long gravelled driveway; then putting his hand on Darrell's
shoulder, he said, quite loudly,--

"Wake up, my boy! We're getting home now."

To Darrell his voice sounded faint and far away, like an echo out of a
vast distance, and it was some seconds before he could realize where he
was or form any definite idea of his surroundings. Gradually he became
conscious that the air was no longer hot and stifling, but cool and
fragrant with the sweet, resinous breath of pines. Looking about him, he
saw they were winding upward along an avenue cut through a forest of
small, slender pines, which extended below them on one side and far
above them on the other.

A moment later they came out into a clearing, whence he could see,
rising directly before him, in a series of natural terraces, the slopes
of the sombre-hued, pine-clad mountain which overlooked the little city.
Upon one of the terraces of the mountain stood a massive house of unhewn
granite, a house representing no particular style of architecture, but
whose deep bay-windows, broad, winding verandas, and shadowy, secluded
balconies all combined to present an aspect most inviting. To Darrell
the place had an irresistible charm; he gazed at it as though
fascinated, unable to take his eyes from the scene.

"You certainly have a beautiful home, Mr. Underwood," he said, "and a
most unique location. I never saw anything quite like it."

"It will do," said the elder man, quietly, gratified by what he saw in
his companion's face. "I built it for my little girl. It was her own
idea to have it that way, and she has named it 'The Pines.' Thank God,
I've got her left yet, but she is about all."

Something in his tone caused Darrell to glance quickly towards him with
a look of sympathetic inquiry. They were now approaching the house, and
Mr. Underwood turned, facing him, a smile for the first time lighting up
his stern, rugged features, as he said,--

"You will find us what my little girl calls a 'patched-up' family. I am
a widower; my widowed sister keeps house for me, and Harry, whom I had
grown to consider almost a son, was an orphan. But the family, such as
it is, will make you welcome; I can speak for that. Here we are!"

With a supreme effort Darrell summoned all his energies as Mr. Underwood
assisted him from the carriage and into the house. But the ringing and
pounding in his head increased, his brain seemed reeling, and he was so
nearly blinded by pain that, notwithstanding his efforts, he was forced
to admit to himself, as a little later he sank upon a couch in the room
assigned to him, that his impressions of the ladies to whom he had just
been presented were exceedingly vague.

Mr. Underwood's sister, Mrs. Dean, he remembered as a large woman,
low-voiced, somewhat resembling her brother in manner, and like him, of
few words, yet something in her greeting had assured him of a welcome
as deep as it was undemonstrative. Of Kate Underwood, in whom he had
felt more than a passing interest, remembering Whitcomb's love for his
cousin, he recalled a tall, slender, girlish form; a wealth of
golden-brown hair, and a pair of large, luminous brown eyes, whose
wistful, almost appealing look haunted him strangely, though he was
unable to recall another feature of her face.

Mr. Underwood, who had left the room to telephone for a physician,
returned with a faithful servant, and insisted upon Darrell's retiring
to bed without delay, a proposition which the latter was only too glad
to follow. Darrell had already given Mr. Underwood the package of
fifteen thousand dollars found on the train, and now, while disrobing,
handed him the belt in which he carried his own money, saying,--

"I'll put this in your keeping for a few days, till I feel more like
myself. I lost my watch and some change, but I took the precaution to
have this hidden."

He stopped abruptly and seemed to be trying to recall something, then
continued, slowly,--

"There was something else in connection with that affair which I wished
to say to you, but my head is so confused I cannot think what it was."

"Don't try to think now; it will come to you by and by," Mr. Underwood
replied. "You're in good hands, so don't worry yourself about anything,
but get all the rest you can."

With a deep sigh of relief Darrell sank on the pillows, and was soon
sleeping heavily.

A few moments later Mr. Underwood, coming from Darrell's room, having
left the servant in charge, met his sister coming down the long hall.
She beckoned, and, turning, slowly retraced her steps, her brother
following, to another part of the house, where they entered a darkened
chamber and together stood beside a low, narrow couch strewn with
fragrant flowers. Together, without a word or a tear, they gazed on the
peaceful face of this sleeper, wrapped in the breathless, dreamless
slumber we call death. They recalled the years since he had come to
them, the dying bequest of their youngest sister, a little,
golden-haired prattler, to fill their home with the music of his
childish voice and the sunshine of his smile. Already the great house
seemed strangely silent without his ringing laughter, his bursts of
merry song.

But of whatever bitter grief stirred their hearts, this silent brother
and sister, so long accustomed to self-restraint and self-repression,
gave no sign. Gently she replaced the covering over the face of the
sleeper, and silently they left the room. Not until they again reached
the door of Darrell's room was the silence broken; then the brother
said, in low tones,--

"Marcia, we've done all for the dead that can be done; it's the living
who needs our care now."

"Yes," she replied, quietly, "I was going to see what I could do for him
when you had put him to bed."

"Bennett is in there now, and I'm going downstairs to wait for Dr.
Bradley; he telephoned that he'd be up in twenty minutes."

"Very well; I'll sit by him till the doctor comes."

When Dr. Bradley arrived he found Darrell in a state of coma from which
it was almost impossible to arouse him. From Mr. Underwood and his
sister he learned whatever details they could furnish, but from the
patient himself very little information could be obtained.

"He has this fever that is prevailing in the mountainous districts, and
has it in its worst form," he said, when about to take leave. "Of
course, having just come from the East, it would be worse for him in any
event than if he were acclimated; but aside from that, the cerebral
symptoms are greatly aggravated owing to the nervous shock which he
received last night. To witness an occurrence of that sort would be more
or less of a shock to nerves in a normal state, but in the condition in
which he was at the time, it is likely to produce some rather serious
complications. Follow these directions which I have written out, and
I'll be in again in a couple of hours."

But in two hours Darrell was delirious.

"Has he recognized any one since I was here?" Dr. Bradley inquired, as
he again stood beside the patient.

"I don't think so," Mrs. Dean replied. "I could hardly rouse him enough
to give him the medicine, and even then he didn't seem to know me."

"I'll be in about midnight," said the physician, as he again took leave,
"and I'll send a professional nurse, a man; this is likely to be a long
siege."

"Send whatever is needed," said Mr. Underwood, brusquely, "the same as
if 'twere for the boy himself!"

"And, Mrs. Dean," the physician continued, "if he should have a lucid
interval, you had better ascertain the address of his friends."

It was nearly midnight. For hours Darrell had battled against the
darkening shadows fast settling down upon him, enveloping him with a
horror worse than death itself. Suddenly there was a rift in the clouds,
and the calm, sweet light of reason stole softly through. He felt a cool
hand on his forehead, and, opening his eyes, looked with a smile into
the face of Mrs. Dean as she bent over him. Bending still lower, she
said, in low, distinct tones:

"Can you tell me the name of your people, and where they live?"

In an instant he comprehended all that her question implied; he must
give his own name and the address of the far-away eastern home. He
strove to recall it, but the effort was too great; before he could
speak, the clouds surged together and all was blotted out in darkness.




_Chapter IV_

LIFE? OR DEATH?


Hour by hour the clouds thickened, obscuring every ray of light, closing
the avenues of sight and sound, until, isolated from the outer world by
this intangible yet impenetrable barrier, Darrell was alone in a world
peopled only with the phantoms of his imagination. Of the lapse of time,
of the weary procession of days and nights which followed, he knew
nothing. Day and night were to him only an endless repetition of the
horrors which thronged his fevered brain.

Again and again he lived over the tragic scene in the sleeping-car, each
iteration and reiteration growing in dreadful realism, until it was he
himself who grappled in deadly contest with the murderer, and the latter
in turn became a monster whose hot breath stifled him, whose malign,
demoniacal glance seemed to sear his eyeballs like living fire. Over and
over, with failing strength, he waged the unequal contest, striving at
last with a legion of hideous forms. Then, as the clouds grew still more
dense about him, these shapes grew dim and he found himself, weak and
trembling, adrift upon a sea of darkness whose black waves tossed him
angrily, with each breath threatening to engulf him in their gloomy
depths. Desperately he battled with them, each struggle leaving him
weaker than the last, until at length, scarcely breathing, his strength
utterly exhausted, he lay watching the towering forms as they swept
relentlessly towards him, gathering strength and fury as they came. He
saw the yawning abysses on each side, he heard the roar of the
on-coming waves, but was powerless to move hand or foot.

But while he waited in helpless terror the waves on which he tossed to
and fro grew calm; then they seemed to divide, and he felt himself going
down, down into infinite depths. The sullen roar died away; the darkness
was flooded with golden light, and through its ethereal waves he was
still floating downward more gently than ever a roseleaf floated to
earth on the evening's breath. Through the waves of golden light there
came to him a faint, distant murmur of voices, and the words,--

"He is sinking fast!"

He smiled with perfect content, wondering dreamily if it would never
end; then consciousness was lost in utter oblivion.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three weeks had elapsed since Darrell came to The Pines. August had
given place to September, but the languorous days brought no cessation
of the fearful heat, no cooling rain to the panting earth, no promise of
renewed life to the drought-smitten vegetation. The timber on the ranges
had been reduced to masses of charred and smouldering embers, among
which the low flames still crept and crawled, winding their way up and
down the mountains. The pall of smoke overhanging the city grew more and
more dense, until there came a morning when, as the sun looked over the
distant ranges, the landscape was suffused with a dull red glare which
steadily deepened until all objects assumed a blood-red hue. Two or
three hours passed, and then a lurid light illumined the strange scene,
brightening moment by moment, till earth and sky glowed like a mass of
molten copper. The heat seemed to concentrate upon that part of the
earth's surface, the air grew oppressive, and an ominous silence
reigned, in which even the birds were hushed and the dumb brutes cowered
beside their masters.

As the brazen glow was fading to a weird, yellow light, an anxious group
was gathered about Darrell's bedside. He still tossed and moaned in
delirium, but his movements had grown pathetically feeble and the moans
were those of a tired child sobbing himself to sleep.

"He cannot hold out much longer," said Dr. Bradley, his fingers on the
weakening pulse, "his strength is failing rapidly."

"There will be a change soon, one way or the other," said the nurse,
"and there's not much of a chance left him now."

"One chance in a hundred," said Dr. Bradley, slowly; "and that is his
wonderful constitution; he may pull through where ninety-nine others
would die."

Dr. Bradley watched the sick man in silence, then noting that the room
was darkening, he stepped to an open window and cast a look of anxious
inquiry at the murky sky. As if in answer to his thought, there came the
low rumble of distant thunder, bringing a look of relief and hopefulness
to the face of the physician. Returning to the bedside, he gave a few
directions, then, as he was leaving, remarked,--

"There will be a change in the weather soon, a change that may help to
turn the tide in his favor, provided it does not come too late!"

Hours passed; the distant mutterings grew louder, while the darkness and
gloom increased, and the sense of oppression became almost intolerable.
Suddenly the leaden mass which had overspread the sky appeared to drop
to earth, and in the dead silence which followed could be heard the roar
of the wind through the gorges and down the canyons. A moment more, and
clouds of dust and débris, the outriders of the coming tempest, rushed
madly through the streets in whirling columns towering far above the
city. From their vantage ground the dwellers at The Pines watched the
course of the storm, but only for a moment; then blinding sheets of
water hid even the nearest objects from view, while lightnings flashed
incessantly and the thunder crashed and rolled in one ceaseless,
deafening roar. The trees waved their arms in wild, helpless terror as
one and another of their number were prostrated by the storm, while the
dry channels on the mountain-side became raging, foaming torrents.
Suddenly the winds changed, a chilling blast swept across the plateau,
and to the rush of the wind, the roar of the thunder, and the crash of
falling timber was added the sharp staccato of swiftly descending hail.

For nearly an hour the storm raged in its fury, then departed as
suddenly as it came; but it left behind a clear atmosphere, crisp as an
October morning.

As the storm clouds, touched with beauty by the rays of the setting sun,
were settling below the eastern ranges, Dr. Bradley again entered the
sick-room. The room was flooded with golden light, and the physician was
quick to note the changes which the few hours had wrought in the sick
man. The fever had gone and, his strength spent, his splendid energies
exhausted, life's forces were ebbing moment by moment.

"He is sinking fast," said Mrs. Dean.

Even as she spoke a smile stole over the pallid features; then, as they
watched eagerly for some token of returning consciousness, the nervous
system, so long strained to its utmost tension, suddenly relaxed and
utter collapse followed.

For hours Darrell lay as one dead, an occasional fluttering about the
heart being the only sign of life. But late in the forenoon of the
following day the watchers by the bedside, noting each feeble pulsation,
thinking it might be the last, felt an almost imperceptible quickening
of the life current. Gradually the fluttering pulse grew calm and
steady, the faint respirations grew deeper and more regular, until at
length, with a long, tremulous sigh, Darrell sank into slumber sweet and
restful as a child's, and the watchers knew that the crisis had passed.




_Chapter V_

JOHN BRITTON


It was on one of those glorious October days, when every breath quickens
the blood and when simply to live is a joy unspeakable, that Darrell
first walked abroad into the outdoor world. Several times during his
convalescence he had sunned himself on the balcony opening from his
room, or when able to go downstairs had paced feebly up and down the
verandas, but of late his strength had returned rapidly, so that now,
accompanied by his physician, he was walking back and forth over the
gravelled driveway under the pine-trees, his step gaining firmness with
every turn.

Seated on the veranda were Mr. Underwood and his sister, the one with
his pipe and newspaper, the other with her knitting; but the newspaper
had slipped unheeded to the floor, and though Mrs. Dean's skilful
fingers did not slacken their work for an instant, yet her eyes, like
her brother's, were fastened upon Darrell, and a shade of pity might
have been detected in the look of each, which the occasion at first
sight hardly seemed to warrant.

"Poor fellow!" said Mr. Underwood, at length; "it's hard for a young man
to be handicapped like that!"

"Yes," assented his sister, "and he takes it hard, too, though he
doesn't say much. I can't bear to look in his eyes sometimes, they look
so sort of pleading and helpless."

"Takes it hard!" reiterated Mr. Underwood; "why shouldn't he. I'm
satisfied that he is a young man of unusual ability, who had a bright
future before him, and I tell you, Marcia, it's pretty hard for him to
wake up and find it all rubbed off the slate!"

"Well," said Mrs. Dean, with a sigh, "everybody has to carry their own
burdens, but there's a look on his face when he thinks nobody sees him
that makes me wish I could help him carry his, though I don't suppose
anybody can, for that matter; it isn't anything that anybody feels like
saying much about."

"I'm glad Jack is coming," said Mr. Underwood, after a pause; "he may do
him some good. He has a way of getting at those things that you and I
haven't, Marcia."

"Yes, he's seen trouble himself, though nobody knows what it was."

Notwithstanding the tide of returning vitality was fast restoring tissue
and muscle to Darrell's wasted limbs and firmness and elasticity to his
step, it was yet evident to a close observer that some undercurrent of
suffering was doing its work day by day; sprinkling the dark hair with
gleams of silver, tracing faint lines in the face hitherto untouched by
care, working its subtle, mysterious changes.

When a new lease of life was granted to John Darrell and he awoke to
consciousness, it was to find that every detail of his past life had
been blotted out, leaving only a blank. Of his home, his friends, of his
own name even, not a vestige of memory was left. It was as though he had
entered upon a new existence.

By degrees, as he was able to hear them, he was given the details of his
arrival at Ophir, of his coming to The Pines, of the tragedy which he
had witnessed in the sleeping-car, but they awoke no memories in his
mind. For him there was no past. As a realization of his condition
dawned upon him his mental distress was pitiable. Despite the efforts of
physician and nurse to divert his mind, he would lie for hours trying to
recall some fragment from the veiled and shrouded past, but all in vain.
Yet, with returning physical strength, many of his former attainments
seemed to return to him, naturally and without effort. Dr. Bradley one
day used a Latin phrase in his hearing; he at once repeated it and,
without a moment's hesitation, gave the correct rendering, but was
unable to tell how he did it.

"It simply came to me," was all the explanation he could give.

From this the physician argued that the memory of his past life would
sooner or later return, and it was this hope alone which at that time
saved Darrell from total despair.

Aside from his professional interest in so peculiar a case, Dr. Bradley
had become interested in Darrell himself; many of his leisure hours were
spent at The Pines, and quite a friendship existed between the two.

In Mr. Underwood and his sister Darrell had found two steadfast friends,
each seeming to vie with the other in thoughtful, unobtrusive kindness.
His strange misfortune had only deepened and intensified the sympathy
which had been first aroused by the peculiar circumstances under which
he had come to them. But now, as then, they said little, and for this
Darrell was grateful. Even the silent pity which he read in their eyes
hurt him,--why, he could scarcely explain to himself; expressed in
words, it would have been intolerable. Early in his convalescence
Darrell had expressed an unwillingness to trespass upon their kindness
by remaining after he could with safety be moved, but the few words they
had spoken on that occasion had effectually silenced any further
suggestion of the kind on his part. He understood that to leave them
would be to forfeit their friendship, which he well knew was of a sort
too rare to be slighted or thrown aside.

Of Kate Underwood Darrell knew nothing, except as her father or aunt
spoke of her, for he had no recollection of her and she had left home
early in his illness to return to an eastern college, from which she
would graduate the following year.

With more animation than he had yet shown since his illness, Darrell
returned to the veranda. He was flushed and trembling slightly from the
unusual exertion, and Dr. Bradley, dropping down beside him, from force
of habit laid his fingers on Darrell's wrist, but the latter shook them
off playfully.

"No more of that!" he exclaimed, adding, "Doctor, I challenge you for a
race two weeks from to-day. What do you say, do you take me up?"

"Two weeks from to-day!" repeated the doctor, with an incredulous smile,
at the same time scrutinizing Darrell's form. "Well, yes. When you are
in ordinary health I don't think I would care to do much business with
you along that line, but two weeks from to-day is a safe proposition, I
guess. What do you want to make it, a hundred yards?" he inquired, with
a laughing glance at Mr. Underwood.

"One hundred yards," replied Darrell, following the direction of the
doctor's glance. "Do you want to name the winner, Mr. Underwood?"

"I'll back you, my boy," said the elder man, quietly, his shrewd face
growing a trifle shrewder.

"What!" exclaimed Dr. Bradley, rising hastily;

"I guess it's about time I was going, if that's your estimate of my
athletic prowess," and, shaking hands with Darrell, he started down the
driveway.

"I'll put you up at about ten to one," Mr. Underwood called after the
retreating figure, but a deprecatory wave of his hand over his shoulder
was the doctor's only reply.

"Oh," exclaimed Darrell, looking about him, "this is glorious! This is
one of the days that make a fellow feel that life is worth living!"

Even as he spoke there came to his mind the thought of what life meant
to him, and the smile died from his lips and the light from his eyes.

For a moment nothing was said, then, with the approaching sound of
rhythmic hoof-beats, Mr. Underwood rose, deliberately emptying the ashes
from his pipe as a fine pair of black horses attached to a light
carriage appeared around the house from the direction of the stables.

"You will be back for lunch, David?" Mrs. Dean inquired.

"Yes, and I'll bring Jack with me," was his reply, as he seated himself
beside the driver, and the horses started at a brisk trot down the
driveway.

With a smile Mrs. Dean addressed Darrell, who was watching the horses
with a keen appreciation of their good points.

"This 'Jack' that you've heard my brother speak of is his partner."

"Yes?" said Darrell, courteously, feeling slight interest in the
expected guest, but glad of anything to divert his thoughts.

"Yes," Mrs. Dean continued; "they've been partners and friends for more
than ten years. His name is John Britton, but it's never anything but
'Dave' and 'Jack' between the two; they're almost like two boys
together."

Darrell wondered what manner of man this might be who could transform
his silent, stern-faced host into anything boy-like, but he said
nothing.

"To see them together you'd wonder at their friendship, too," continued
Mrs. Dean, "for they're noways alike. My brother is all business, and
Mr. Britton is not what you'd really call a practical business man. He
is very rich, for he is one of those men that everything they touch
seems to turn to gold, but he doesn't seem to care much about money. He
spends a great deal of his time in reading and studying, and though he
makes very few friends, he could have any number of them if he wanted,
for he's one of those people that you always feel drawn to without
knowing why."

Mrs. Dean paused to count the stitches in her work, and Darrell, whose
thoughts were of the speaker more than of the subject of conversation,
watching her placid face, wondered whether it were possible for any
emotion ever to disturb that calm exterior. Presently she resumed her
subject, speaking in low, even tones, which a slight, gentle inflection
now and then just saved from monotony.

"He's always a friend to anybody in distress, and I guess there isn't a
poor person or a friendless person in Ophir that doesn't know him and
love him. He has had some great trouble; nobody knows what it is, but he
told David once that it had changed his whole life."

Darrell now became interested, and the dark eyes fixed on Mrs. Dean's
face grew suddenly luminous with the quick sympathy her words had
aroused.

"He always seems to be on the lookout for anybody that has trouble, to
help them; that's how he got to know my brother."

Mrs. Dean hesitated a moment. "I never spoke of this to any one before,
but I thought maybe you'd be interested to know about it," she said,
looking at Darrell with a slightly apologetic air.

"I am, and I think I understand and appreciate your motive," was his
quiet reply.

She dropped her work, folding her hands above it, and her face wore a
reminiscent look as she continued:

"When David's wife died, twelve years ago, it was an awful blow to him.
He didn't say much,--that isn't our way,--but we were afraid he would
never be the same again. His brother was out here at that time, but none
of us could do anything for him. He kept on trying to attend to business
just as usual, but he seemed, as you might say, to have lost his grip on
things. It went on that way for nearly two years; his business got
behind and everything seemed to be slipping through his fingers, when he
happened to get acquainted with Mr. Britton, and he seemed to know just
what to say and do. He got David interested in business again. He loaned
him money to start with, and they went into business together and have
been together ever since. They have both been successful, but David has
worked and planned for what he has, while Mr. Britton's money seems to
come to him. He owns property all over the State, and all through the
West for that matter, and sometimes he's in one place and sometimes in
another, but he never stays very long anywhere. David would like to have
him make his home with us, but he told him once that he couldn't think
of it; that he only stayed in a place till the pain got to be more than
he could bear, and then he went somewhere else."

A long silence followed; then, as Mrs. Dean folded her work, she said,
softly,--

"It's no wonder he knows just how to help folks who are in trouble, for
I guess he has suffered himself more than anybody knows."

A little later she had gone indoors to superintend the preparations for
lunch, but Darrell still sat in the mellow, autumn sunlight, his eyes
closed, picturing to himself this stranger silently bearing his hidden
burden, changing from place to place, but always keeping the pain.

It still lacked two hours of sunset when John Darrell, leaning on the
arm of John Britton, walked slowly up the mountain-path to a rustic seat
under the pines. They had met at lunch. Mr. Britton had already heard
the strange story of Darrell's illness, and, looking into his eyes with
their troubled questioning, their piteous appeal, knew at once by swift
intuition how hopelessly bewildering and dark life must look to the
young man before him just at the age when it usually is brightest and
most alluring; and Darrell, meeting the steadfast gaze of the clear,
gray eyes, saw there no pity, but something infinitely broader, deeper,
and sweeter, and knew intuitively that they were united by the
fellowship of suffering, that mysterious tie which has not only bound
human hearts together in all ages, but has linked suffering humanity
with suffering Divinity.

For more than two hours Darrell, taking little part himself in the
general conversation, had watched, as one entranced, the play of the
fine features and listened to the deep, musical voice of this stranger
who was a stranger no longer.

He was an excellent conversationalist; humorous without being cynical,
scholarly without being pedantic, and showing especial familiarity with
history and the natural sciences.

At last, while walking up and down the broad veranda, Mr. Britton had
paused beside Darrell, and throwing an arm over his shoulder had said,--

"Come, my son, let us have a little stroll."

Darrell's heart had leaped strangely at the words, he knew not why, and
in a silence pregnant with deep emotion on both sides, they had climbed
to the rustic bench. Here they sat down. The ground at their feet was
carpeted with pine-needles; the air was sweet with the fragrance of the
pines and of the warm earth; no sound reached their ears aside from the
chirping of the crickets, the occasional dropping of a pine-cone, or the
gentle sighing of the light breeze through the branches above their
heads.

A glorious scene lay outspread before them; the distant ranges half
veiled in purple haze, the valleys flooded with golden light, brightened
by the autumnal tints of the deciduous timber which marked the courses
of numerous small streams, and over the whole a restful silence, as
though, the year's work ended, earth was keeping some grand, solemn
holiday.

Mr. Britton first broke the silence, as in low tones he murmured,
reverently,--

"'Thou crownest the year with Thy goodness!'"

Then turning to Darrell with a smile of peculiar sweetness, he said,
"This is one of what I call the year's 'coronation days,' when even
Nature herself rests from her labors and dons her royal robes in honor
of the occasion."

Then, as an answering light dawned in Darrell's eyes and the tense lines
in his face began to relax, Mr. Britton continued, musingly:

"I have often wondered why we do not imitate Nature in her great annual
holiday, and why we, a nation who garners one of the richest harvests of
the world, do not have a national harvest festival. How effectively and
fittingly, for instance, something similar to the old Jewish feast of
tabernacles might be celebrated in this part of the country! In the
earliest days of their history the Jews were commanded, when the year's
harvest had been gathered, to take the boughs of goodly trees, of
palm-trees and willows, and to construct booths in which they were to
dwell, feasting and rejoicing, for seven days. In the only account given
of one of these feasts, we read that the people brought olive-branches
and pine-branches, myrtle-branches and palm-branches, and made
themselves booths upon the roofs of their houses, in their courts, and
in their streets, and dwelt in them, 'and there was very great
gladness.' Imagine such a scene on these mountain-slopes and foot-hills,
under these cloudless skies; the sombre, evergreen boughs interwoven
with the brightly colored foliage from the lowlands; this mellow, golden
sunlight by day alternating with the white, mystical radiance of the
harvest moon by night."

Mr. Britton's words had, as he intended they should, drawn Darrell's
thoughts from himself. Under his graphic description, accompanied by the
powerful magnetism of his voice and presence, Darrell seemed to see the
Oriental festival which he had depicted and to feel a soothing influence
from the very simplicity and beauty of the imaginary scene.

"Think of the rest, the relaxation, in a week of such a life!" continued
Mr. Britton. "Re-creation, in the true sense of the word. The simplest
joys are the sweetest, but our lives have grown too complex for us to
appreciate them. Our amusements and recreations, as we call them, are
often more wearing and exhausting than our labors."

For nearly an hour Mr. Britton led the conversation on general subjects,
carefully avoiding every personal allusion; Darrell following,
interested, animated, wondering more and more at the man beside him,
until the latter tactfully led him to speak--calmly and dispassionately,
as he could not have spoken an hour before--of himself. Almost before he
was aware, Darrell had told all: of his vain gropings in the darkness
for some clue to the past; of the helpless feeling akin to despair which
sometimes took possession of him when he attempted to face the situation
continuously confronting him.

During his recital Mr. Britton had thrown his arm about Darrell's
shoulder, and when he paused quite a silence followed.

"Did it ever occur to you," Mr. Britton said at length, speaking very
slowly, "that there are hundreds--yes, thousands--who would be only too
glad to exchange places with you to-day?"

"No," Darrell replied, too greatly astonished to say more.

"But there are legions of poor souls, haunted by crime, or crushed
beneath the weight of sorrow, whose one prayer would be, if such a thing
were possible, that their past might be blotted out; that they might be
free to begin life anew, with no memories dogging their steps like
spectres, threatening at every turn to work their undoing."

For a moment Darrell regarded his friend with a fixed, inquiring gaze,
which gradually changed to a look of comprehension.

"I see," he said at length, "I have got to begin life anew; but you
consider that there are others who have to make the start under
conditions worse than mine."

"Far worse," said Mr. Britton. "Don't think for a moment that I fail to
realize in how many ways you are handicapped or to appreciate the
obstacles against which you will have to contend, but this I do say: the
future is in your own hands--as much as it is in the hands of any
mortal--to make the most of and the best of that you can, and with the
negative advantage, at least, that you are untrammelled by a past that
can hold you back or drag you down."

The younger man laid his hand on the knee of the elder with a gesture
almost appealing. "The future, until now, has looked very dark to me; it
begins to look brighter. Advise me; tell me how best to begin!"

"In one word," said Mr. Britton, with a smile. "Work! Just as soon as
you are able, find some work to do. Did we but know it, work is the
surest antidote for the poisonous discontent and ennui of this world,
the swiftest panacea for its pains and miseries; different forms to suit
different cases, but every form brings healing and blessing, even down
to the humblest manual labor."

"That is just what I have wanted," said Darrell, eagerly; "to go to work
as soon as possible; but what can I do? What am I fitted for? I have not
the slightest idea. I don't care to work at breaking stone, though I
suppose that would be better than nothing."

"That would be better than nothing," said Mr. Britton, smiling again,
"but that would not be suited to your case. What you need is mental
work, something to keep your mind constantly occupied, and rest assured
you will find it when you are ready for it. Our Father provides what we
need just when we need it. 'Day by day' we have the 'daily bread' for
mental and spiritual life, as for temporal. But what you most want to do
is to keep your mind pleasantly occupied, and above all things don't
try to recall the past. In God's own good time it will return of
itself."

"And when it does, what revelations will it bring?" Darrell queried
musingly.

"Nothing that you will be afraid or ashamed to meet; of that I am sure,"
said Mr. Britton, confidently, adding a moment later, in a lighter tone,
"It is nearing sunset, my boy, and time that I was taking you back to
the house."

"You have given me new courage, new hope," said Darrell, rising. "I feel
now as though there were something to live for--as though I might make
something out of life, after all."

"I realize," said Mr. Britton, tenderly, as together they began the
descent of the mountain path, "as deeply as you do that your life is
sadly disjointed; but strive so to live that when the broken fragments
are at last united they will form one harmonious and symmetrical whole.
It is a difficult task, I know, but the result will be well worth the
effort. In your case, my son, even more than in ordinary lives, the
words of the poet are peculiarly applicable:

  "'A sacred burden is this life ye bear:
  Look on it, lift it, bear it solemnly;
  Stand up and walk beneath it steadfastly;
  Fail not for sorrow, falter not for sin,
  But onward, upward, till the goal ye win.'"

An hour later John Britton stood alone on one of the mountain terraces,
his tall, lithe form silhouetted against the evening sky, his arms
folded, his face lifted upward. It was a face of marvellous strength and
sweetness combined. Sorrow had set its unmistakable seal upon his
features; here and there pain had traced its ineffaceable lines; but
the firmly set mouth was yet inexpressibly tender, the calm brow was
unfurrowed, and the clear eyes had the far-seeing look of one who, like
the Alpine traveller, had reached the heights above the clouds, to whose
vision were revealed glories undreamed of by the dwellers in the vales
below.

And to Darrell, watching from his room the distant figure outlined
against the sky, the simple grandeur, the calm triumph of its pose must
have brought some revelation concerning this man of whom he knew so
little, yet whose personality even more than his words had taken so firm
a hold upon himself, for, as the light faded and deepening twilight hid
the solitary figure from view, he turned from the window, and, pacing
slowly up and down the room, soliloquized:

"With him for a friend, I can meet the future with courage and await
with patience the resurrection of the buried past. As he has conquered,
so will I conquer; I will scale the heights after him, until I stand
where he stands to-night!"




_Chapter VI_

ECHOES FROM THE PAST


During his stay at The Pines Mr. Britton spent the greater portion of
his time with Mr. Underwood, either at their offices or at the mines.
Darrell, therefore, saw little of his new-found friend except as they
all gathered in the evening around the glowing fire in the large family
sitting-room, for, notwithstanding the lingering warmth and sunshine of
the days, the nights were becoming sharp and frosty, so that an open
fire added much to the evening's enjoyment. Each morning, however,
before his departure, Mr. Britton stopped for a few words with Darrell;
some quaint, kindly bit of humor, the pleasant flavor of which would
enliven the entire day; some unhackneyed expression of sympathy whose
very genuineness and sincerity made Darrell's position seem to him less
isolated and solitary than before; or some suggestion which, acted upon,
relieved the monotony of the tedious hours of convalescence.

At his suggestion Darrell took vigorous exercise each day in the morning
air and sunshine, devoting his afternoons to a course of light, pleasant
reading.

"If you are going to work," said Mr. Britton, "the first requisite is to
have your body and mind in just as healthful and normal a condition as
possible, in order that you may be able to give an equivalent for what
you receive. In these days of trouble between employer and employed, we
hear a great deal about the laborer demanding an honest equivalent for
his toil, but it does not occur to him to inquire whether he is giving
his employer an honest equivalent for his money. The fact is, a large
percentage of working-men and working-women, in all departments of
labor, are squandering their energies night after night in various forms
and degrees of dissipation until they are utterly incapacitated for one
honest day's work; yet they do not hesitate to take a full day's wages,
and would consider themselves wronged were the smallest fraction
withheld."

Darrell found himself rather restricted in his reading for the first few
days, as he found but a limited number of books at The Pines, until Mrs.
Dean, who had received a hint from Mr. Britton, meeting him one day in
the upper hall, led him into two darkened rooms, saying, as she hastened
to open the blinds,--

"These are what the children always called their 'dens.' All their books
are here, and I thought maybe you'd like to look them over. If you see
anything you like, just help yourself, and use the rooms for reading or
writing whenever you want to."

Darrell, left to himself, looked about him with much interest. The two
rooms were similar in style and design, but otherwise were as diverse as
possible. The room in which he was standing was furnished in embossed
leather. A leather couch stood near one of the windows, and a large
reclining-chair of the same material was drawn up before the fireplace.
Near the mantel was a pipe-rack filled with fine specimens of briar-wood
and meerschaum pipes. Signs of tennis, golf, and various athletic sports
were visible on all sides; in the centre of the room stood a large
roll-top desk, open, and on it lay a briar pipe, filled with ashes, just
where the owner's hand had laid it. But what most interested Darrell was
a large portrait over the fireplace, which he knew must be that of
Harry Whitcomb. The face was neither especially fine nor strong, but the
winsome smile lurking about the curves of the sensitive mouth and in the
depths of the frank blue eyes rendered it attractive, and it was with a
sigh for the young life so suddenly blotted out that Darrell turned to
enter the second room.

He paused at the doorway, feeling decidedly out of place, and glanced
about him with a serio-comic smile. The furnishings were as unique as
possible, no one piece in the room bearing any relation or similarity to
any other piece. There were chairs and tables of wicker-work, twisted
into the most ornate designs, interspersed among heavy, antique pieces
of carving and slender specimens of colonial simplicity; divans covered
with pillows of every delicate shade imaginable; exquisite etchings and
dainty bric-à-brac. In an alcove formed by a large bay-window stood a
writing-desk of ebony inlaid with mother-of-pearl, and on an easel in a
secluded corner, partially concealed by silken draperies, was the
portrait of Kate Underwood,--a childish, rather immature face, but with
a mouth indicating both sweetness and strength of character, and with
dark, strangely appealing eyes.

The walls of both rooms were lined with bookcases, but their contents
were widely diverse, and, to Darrell's surprise, he found the young
girl's library contained far the better class of books. But even in
their selection he observed the same peculiarity that he had noted in
the furnishing of the room; there were few complete sets of books;
instead, there were one, two, or three volumes of each author, as the
case might be, evidently her especial favorites.

But Darrell returned to the other room, which interested him far more,
each article in it bearing eloquent testimony to the happy young life
of whose tragic end he had now often heard, but of which he was unable
to recall the faintest memory. Passing slowly through the room, his
attention was caught by a violin case standing in an out-of-the-way
corner. With a cry of joy he drew it forth, his fingers trembling with
eagerness as he opened it and took therefrom a genuine Stradivarius. At
that moment his happiness knew no bounds. Seating himself and bending
his head over the instrument after the manner of a true violin lover, he
drew the bow gently across the strings, producing a chord of such
triumphant sweetness that the air seemed vibrating with the joy which at
that instant thrilled his own soul.

Immediately all thought of himself or of his surroundings was lost. With
eyes half closed and dreamy he began to play, without effort, almost
mechanically, but with the deft touch of a master hand, while liquid
harmonies filled the room, quivering, rising, falling; at times low,
plaintive, despairing; then swelling exultantly, only to die away in
tremulous, minor undertones. The man's pent-up feelings had at last
found expression,--his alternate hope and despair, his unutterable
loneliness and longing,--all voiced by the violin.

Of the lapse of time Darrell had neither thought nor consciousness until
the door opened and Mrs. Dean's calm smile and matter-of-fact voice
recalled him to a material world.

"I see that you have found Harry's violin," she said.

"I beg your pardon," Darrell stammered, somewhat dazed by his sudden
descent to the commonplace, "I ought not to have taken it; I never
thought,--I was so delighted to find the instrument and so carried away
with its tones,--it never occurred to me how it might seem to you!"

"Oh, that is all right," she interposed, quietly; "use it whenever you
like. Harry bought it two years ago, but he never had the patience to
learn it, so it has been used very little. I never heard such playing as
yours, and I stepped in to ask you to bring it downstairs and play for
us to-night. Mr. Britton will be delighted; he enjoys everything of that
sort."

Around the fireside that evening Darrell had an attentive audience,
though the appreciation of his auditors was manifested in a manner
characteristic of each. Mr. Underwood, after two or three futile
attempts to talk business with his partner, finding him very
uncommunicative, gave himself up to the enjoyment of his pipe and the
music in about equal proportions, indulging surreptitiously in
occasional brief naps, though always wide awake at the end of each
number and joining heartily in the applause.

Mrs. Dean sat gazing into the glowing embers, her face lighted with
quiet pleasure, but her knitting-needles twinkled and flashed in the
firelight with the same unceasing regularity, and she doubled and seamed
and "slipped and bound" her stitches with the same monotonous precision
as on other evenings.

Mr. Britton, in a comfortable reclining-chair, sat silent, motionless,
his head thrown back, his eyes nearly closed, but in the varying
expression of his mobile face Darrell found both inspiration and
compensation.

For more than three hours Darrell entertained his friends; quaint
medleys, dreamy waltzes, and bits of classical music following one after
another, with no effort, no hesitancy, on the part of the player. To
their eager inquiries, he could only answer,--

"I don't know how I do it. They seem to come to me with the sweep of
the bow across the strings. I have no recollection of anything that I am
playing; it seems as though the instrument and I were simply drifting."

Late in the evening, when they were nearly ready to separate for the
night, Darrell sat idly strumming the violin, when an old familiar
strain floated sweetly forth, and his astonished listeners suddenly
heard him singing in a rich baritone an old love-song, forgotten until
then by every one present.

Mrs. Dean had already laid aside her work and sat with hands folded, a
smile of unusual tenderness hovering about her lips, while Mr. Britton's
face was quivering with emotion. At its conclusion he grasped Darrell's
hand silently.

"That is a very old song," said Mrs. Dean. "It seems queer to hear you
sing it. I used to hear it sung when I was a young girl, and that," she
added smiling, "was a great many years ago."

"And I have sung it many a time a great many years ago," said Mr.
Britton. And he hastily left the room.




_Chapter VII_

AT THE MINES


Once fairly started on the road to health, Darrell gained marvellously.
Each day marked some new acquisition in physical health and muscular
vigor, while his systematic reading, the soothing influence of the music
to which he devoted a considerable time each day, and, more than all,
his growing intimacy with Mr. Britton, were doing much towards restoring
a better mental equipoise.

The race to which he had challenged Dr. Bradley took place on a frosty
morning early in November, Mr. Underwood himself measuring and marking
the course for the runners and Mr. Britton acting as starter. The result
was a victory for Darrell, who came out more than a yard ahead of his
opponent, somewhat to the chagrin of the latter, who had won quite a
local reputation as an athlete.

"You'll do," he said to Darrell, as he took leave a few moments later,
"but don't pose here as an invalid any longer, or I'll expose you as a
fraud. Understand, I cross your name off my list of patients to-day."

"But not off your list of friends, I hope," Darrell rejoined, as they
shook hands.

When Dr. Bradley had gone, Darrell turned to Mr. Britton, who was
standing near, saying, as his face grew serious,--

"Dr. Bradley is right; I'm no invalid now, and I must quit this idling.
I must find what I can do and go to work."

"All in good time," said Mr. Britton, pleasantly. "We'll find something
for you before I go from here. Meanwhile, I want to give you a little
pleasure-trip if you are able to take it. How would you like to go out
to the mines to-morrow with Mr. Underwood and myself? Do you think you
could 'rough it' with us old fellows for a couple of days?"

"You couldn't have suggested anything that would please me better,"
Darrell answered. "I would like the change, and it's time I was roughing
it. Perhaps when I get out there I'll decide to take a pick and shovel
and start in at the bottom of the ladder and work my way up."

"Is that necessary?" queried Mr. Britton, regarding the younger man with
close but kindly scrutiny. "Mr. Underwood tells me that you brought a
considerable amount of money with you when you came here, which he has
deposited to your credit."

Darrell met the penetrating gaze unwaveringly, as he replied, with quiet
decision, "That money may be mine, or it may not; it may have been given
me to hold in trust. In any event, it belongs to the past, and it will
remain where it is, intact, until the past is unveiled."

Mr. Britton looked gratified, as he remarked, in a low tone, "I don't
think you need any assurance, my boy, that I will back you with all the
capital you need, if you would like to start in business."

"No, Mr. Britton," said Darrell, deeply touched by the elder man's
kindness; "I know, without words, that I could have from you whatever I
needed, but it is useless for me to think of going into business with as
little knowledge of myself as I have at present. The best thing for me
is to take whatever work offers itself, until I find what I am fitted
for or to what I can best adapt myself."

The next morning found Darrell at an early hour on his way to the mining
camp with Mr. Underwood and Mr. Britton. The ground was white and
glistening with frost, and the sun, not yet far above the horizon, shone
with a pale, cold light, but Darrell, wrapped in a fur coat of Mr.
Underwood's, felt only the exhilarating effect of the thin, keen air,
and as the large, double-seated carriage, drawn by two powerful horses,
descended the pine-clad mountain and passed down one of the principal
streets of the little city, he looked about him with lively interest.

Leaving the town behind them, they soon began the ascent of a winding
canyon. After two or three turns, to Darrell's surprise, every sign of
human habitation vanished and only the rocky walls were visible, at
first low and receding, but gradually growing higher and steeper. On
they went, steadily ascending, till a turn suddenly brought the distant
mountains into closer proximity, and Mr. Britton, pointing to a lofty,
rugged range on Darrell's right, said,--

"There lies the Great Divide."

For two hours they wound steadily upward, the massive rocks towering on
all sides, barren, grotesque in form, but beautiful in coloring,--dull
reds, pale greens, and lovely blues and purples staining the sombre
grays and browns.

Darrell had grown silent, and his companions, supposing him absorbed in
the grandeur and beauty of the scenery, left him to his own reflections
while they talked on matters of interest to themselves.

But to Darrell the surrounding rocks were full of a strange, deep
significance. The colorings and markings in the gray granite were to him
what the insignia of the secret orders are to the initiated, replete
with mystical meaning. To him had come the sudden realization that he
was in Nature's laboratory, and in the hieroglyphics traced on the
granite walls he read the symbols of the mysterious alchemy silently and
secretly wrought beneath their surface. The vastness of the scale of
Nature's work, the multiplicity of her symbols, bewildered him, but in
his own mind he knew that he still held the key to this mysterious code,
and the knowledge thrilled him with delight. He gazed about him,
fascinated, saying nothing, but trembling with joy and with eagerness to
put himself to the test, and it was with difficulty that he controlled
his impatience till the long ride should come to an end.

At last they left the canyon and followed a steep road winding up the
side of a mountain, which, after an hour's hard climbing, brought them
to the mining camp. As the carriage stopped Darrell was the first to
alight, springing quickly to the ground and looking eagerly about him.

At a short distance beyond them the road was terminated by the large
milling plant, above which the mountain rose abruptly, its sides dotted
with shaft-houses and crossed and recrossed with trestle-work almost to
the summit. A wooden flume clung like a huge serpent to the steep
slopes, and a tramway descended from near the summit to the mill below.
At a little distance from the mill were the boarding-house and
bunk-houses, while in the foreground, near the road was the office
building, to which the party adjourned after exchanging greetings with
Mr. Hathaway, the superintendent, who had come out to meet them and to
whom Darrell was duly introduced. The room they first entered was the
superintendent's office. Beyond that was a pleasant reception-room,
while in the rear were the private rooms of the superintendent and the
assayer, who were not expected to share the bunk-houses with the miners.

Mr. Underwood and the superintendent at once proceeded to business, but
Mr. Britton, mindful of Darrell's comfort, ushered him into the
reception-room. A coal-fire was glowing in a small grate; a couch, three
or four comfortable chairs, and a few books and magazines contributed to
give the room a cosey appearance, but the object which instantly riveted
Darrell's attention was a large case, extending nearly across one side
of the room, filled with rare mineralogical and geological specimens.
There were quartz crystals gleaming with lumps of free-milling gold,
curling masses of silver and copper wire direct from the mines, gold
nuggets of unusual size and brilliancy, and specimens of ores from the
principal mines not only of that vicinity, but of the West.

Observing Darrell's interest in the contents of the case, Mr. Britton
threw open the doors for a closer inspection, and began calling his
attention to some of the finest specimens, but at Darrell's first
remarks he paused, astonished, listened a few moments, then stepping to
the next room, called Mr. Underwood. That gentleman looked somewhat
perturbed at the interruption, but at a signal from Mr. Britton,
followed the latter quietly across the room to where Darrell was
standing. Here they stood, silently listening, while Darrell,
unconscious of their presence, went rapidly through the specimens,
classifying the different ores, stating the conditions which had
contributed to their individual characteristics, giving the approximate
value of each and the mode of treatment required for its reduction; all
after the manner of a student rehearsing to himself a well-conned
lesson.

At last, catching sight of the astonished faces of his listeners, his
own lighted with pleasure, as he exclaimed, joyously,--

"I wanted to test myself and see if it would come back to me, and it
has! I believed it would, and it has!"

"What has come back to you?" queried Mr. Underwood, too bewildered
himself to catch the drift of Darrell's meaning.

"The knowledge of all this," Darrell answered, indicating the collection
with a swift gesture; "it began to come to me as soon as I saw the rocks
on our way up; it confused me at first, but it is all clear now. Take me
to your mill, Mr. Underwood; I want to see what I can do with the ores
there."

At that moment Mr. Hathaway entered to summon the party to dinner, and
seeing Darrell standing by the case, his hands filled with specimens, he
said, addressing Mr. Underwood with a pleasant tone of inquiry,--

"Mr. Darrell is a mining man?"

But Mr. Underwood was still too confused to answer intelligibly, and it
was Mr. Britton who replied, as he linked his arm within Darrell's on
turning to leave the room,--

"Mr. Darrell is a mineralogist."

At dinner Darrell found himself too excited to eat, so overjoyed was he
at the discovery of attainments he had not dreamed he possessed, and so
eager to put them to every test possible.

It had been Mr. Underwood's intention to visit the mines that afternoon,
but at Darrell's urgent request, they went first to the mill. Here he
found ample scope for his abilities. He fairly revelled in the various
ores, separating, assorting, and classifying them with the rapidity and
accuracy of an expert, and at once proceeded to assay some samples
taken from a new lead recently struck, the report of which had
occasioned this particular trip to the camp. He worked with a dexterity
and skill surprising in one of his years, producing the most accurate
results, to the astonishment and delight of both Mr. Underwood and Mr.
Britton.

After an extended inspection of the different departments of the large
milling plant, he was taken into a small laboratory, where the assayer
in charge was testing some of the recently discovered ore for the
presence of certain metals. After watching for a while in silence
Darrell said, turning to Mr. Underwood,--

"I can give you a quicker and a surer test than that!"

The assayer and himself at once exchanged places, and, unheeding the
many eyes fixed upon him, Darrell seated himself before the long table
and deftly began operations. Not a word broke the silence as by methods
wholly new to his spectators he subjected the ore to successive chemical
changes, until, within an incredibly short time, the presence of the
suspected metals was demonstrated beyond the shadow of a doubt.

"Mineralogist and metallurgist!" exclaimed Mr. Britton delightedly, as
he congratulated Darrell upon his success.

The short November day had now nearly drawn to a close, and after supper
the gentlemen adjourned to the office building, where they spent an hour
or more around the open fire. Darrell, who was quite wearied with the
unusual exertion and excitement of the day, retired early, the
superintendent and assayer had gone out on some business at the mill,
and Mr. Underwood and Mr. Britton were left together. No sooner were
they by themselves than Mr. Britton, who was walking up and down the
room, stopped beside his partner as he sat smoking and gazing
abstractedly into the fire, and, laying a hand on his shoulder, said,--

"Well, Dave, what do you think? After what we've seen to-day, can't you
make a place over there at the mill for the boy?"

"Hang it all!" answered the other, somewhat testily, secretly a little
jealous of the growing intimacy between his partner and Darrell;
"supposing I can, is there any need of your dipping in your oar about
it? Do you think I need any suggestion from you in the way of
befriending him or standing by him?"

"No, Dave," said Mr. Britton, pleasantly, dropping into a chair by Mr.
Underwood's side, "I did not put my question with a view of making any
suggestions. I know, and Darrell knows, that he hasn't a better friend
than you, and because I know this, and also because I am a friend to you
both, I was interested to ask you what you intended doing for him."

"What I intended doing for him and what I probably will actually do for
him are two altogether different propositions--all on account of his own
pig-headedness," was the rather surly response.

"How's that?" Mr. Britton inquired.

"Why, confound the fellow! I took a liking to him from the first, coming
here the way he did, and after what he did for Harry there was nothing I
wouldn't have done for him. Then, after his sickness, when we found his
memory had gone back on him and left him helpless as a child in some
ways, I knew he'd stand no show among strangers, and my idea was to take
him in, in Harry's place, give him a small interest in the business
until he got accustomed to it, and then after a while let him in as
partner. But when I broached the subject to him, a week ago or so, he
wouldn't hear to it; said he'd rather find some work for which he was
adapted and stick to that, at a regular salary. I told him he was
missing a good thing, but nothing that I could say would make any
difference."

"Well," said Mr. Britton, slowly, "I'm not sure but his is the wiser
plan. You must remember, Dave, that his stay with us will probably be
but temporary. Whenever that portion of his brain which is now dormant
does awaken, you can rest assured he will not remain here long. He no
doubt realizes this and wishes to be absolutely foot-loose, ready to
leave at short notice. And as to the financial side of the question, if
you give him the place in your mill for which he is eminently fitted, it
will be fully as remunerative in the long run as the interest in the
business which you intended giving him."

"What place in the mill do you refer to?" Mr. Underwood asked, quickly.

"Oh, I'm not making any 'suggestions,' Dave; you don't need them." And
Mr. Britton smiled quietly into the fire.

"Go ahead and say your say, Jack," said the other, his own face relaxing
into a grim smile; "that was only a bit of my crankiness, and you know
me well enough to know it."

"Give him the position of assayer in charge."

"Great Scott! and fire Benson, who's been there for five years?"

"It makes no difference how long he's been there. Darrell is a better
man every way,--quicker, more accurate, more scientific. You can put
Benson to sorting and weighing ores down at the ore-bins."

After a brief silence Mr. Britton continued, "You couldn't find a better
man for the place or a better position for the man. The work is
evidently right in the line of his profession, and therefore congenial;
and even though you should pay him no more salary than Benson, that,
with outside work in the way of assays for neighboring camps, will be
better than any business interest you would give him short of twelve or
eighteen months at least."

"I guess you're right, and I'll give him the place; but hang it all! I
did want to put him in Harry's place. You and I are getting along in
years, Jack, and it's time we had some young man getting broke to the
harness, so that after a while he could take the brunt of things and let
us old fellows slack up a bit."

"We could not expect that of Darrell," said Mr. Britton. "He is neither
kith nor kin of ours, and when once Nature's ties begin to assert
themselves in his mind, we may find our hold upon him very slight."

Both men sighed deeply, as though the thought had in some way touched an
unpleasant chord. After a pause, Mr. Britton inquired,--

"You have no clue whatever as to Darrell's identity, have you?"

Mr. Underwood shook his head. "Queerest case I ever saw! There wasn't a
scrap of paper nor a pen-mark to show who he was. Parkinson, the mine
expert who was on the same train, said he didn't remember seeing him
until Harry introduced him; he said he supposed he was some friend of
Harry's. Since his sickness I've looked up the conductor on that train
and questioned him, but all he could remember was that he boarded the
train a little this side of Galena and that he had a ticket through from
St. Paul."

"You say this Parkinson was a mine expert; what was he doing out here?"

"He was one of three or four that were here at that time, looking up the
Ajax for eastern parties."

"In all probability," said Mr. Britton, musingly, "Darrell was here on
the same business."

"If that was his business, he said nothing about it to me, and I would
have thought he would, under the circumstances."

"I wonder whether we could ascertain from the owners of the Ajax what
experts were out here or expected out here at that time?"

Mr. Underwood smiled grimly. "Not from the former owners, for nobody
knows where they are, though there are some people quite anxious to
know; and not from the present owners, for they are too busy looking for
their predecessors in interest to think of anything else."

"Why, has the Ajax really changed owners? Did they find any one to buy
it?"

"Yes, a Scotch syndicate bought it. They sent over a man--one of their
own number, I believe, and authorized to act for them--that I guess knew
more about sampling liquors than ores. The Ajax people worked him
accordingly, with the result that the mine was sold at the figure
named,--one million, half down, you know. The man rushed back to New
York, to meet a partner whom he had cabled to come over. About ten days
later they arrived on the ground and began operations at the Ajax. The
mill ran for just ten days when they discovered the condition of affairs
and shut down, and they have been looking for the former owners ever
since."

Both men laughed, then relapsed into silence. A little later, as Mr.
Britton stirred the fire to a brighter glow, he said, while the tender
curves about his mouth deepened,--

"I cannot help feeling that the coming to us of this young man, whose
identity is wrapped in so much mystery, has some peculiar significance
to each of us. I believe that in some way, whether for good or ill I
cannot tell, his life is to be henceforth inseparably linked with our
own lives. He already holds, as you know, a place in each of our hearts
which no stranger has held before, and I have only this to say, David,
old friend, that our mutual regard for him, our mutual efforts for his
well-being, must never lead to any estrangement between ourselves. We
have been stanch friends for too many years for any one at this late
date to come between us; and you must never envy me my little share in
the boy's friendship."

The two men had risen and now stood before the fire with clasped hands.

"I was an old fool to-night, Jack; that was all," said Mr. Underwood,
rather gruffly. "I haven't the knack of saying things that you
have,--never had,--but I'm with you all the time."

On the forenoon of the following day Darrell was shown the underground
workings of the various mines, not excepting the Bird Mine, located
almost at the summit of the mountain. This was the newest mine in camp,
but, in proportion to its development, the best producer of all.

After an early dinner there was a private meeting in the reception-room
beyond the office, at which were present only Mr. Underwood, Mr.
Britton, and Darrell, and at which Mr. Underwood duly tendered to
Darrell the position of assayer in charge at the Camp Bird mill, which
the latter accepted with a frank and manly gratitude which more than
ever endeared him to the hearts of his two friends. In this little
proceeding Mr. Britton purposely took no part, standing before the
grate, his back towards the others, gazing into the fire as though
absorbed in his own thoughts. When all was over, however, he
congratulated Darrell with a warmth and tenderness which filled both the
heart and the eyes of the latter to overflowing. That night, after their
arrival at The Pines, as Mr. Britton and Darrell took their accustomed
stroll, the latter said,--

"Mr. Britton, I feel that I have you to thank for my good fortune of
to-day. You had nothing to say when Mr. Underwood offered me that
position, but, nevertheless, I believe the offer was made at your
suggestion. It was, in reality, your kindness, not his."

"You are partly right and partly wrong," replied Mr. Britton, smiling.
"Never doubt Mr. Underwood's kindness of heart towards yourself. If I
had any part in that affair, it was only to indicate the channel in
which that kindness should flow."

Together they talked of the strange course of events which had finally
brought him and the work for which he was especially adapted together.

"Do you know," said Mr. Britton, as they paused on the veranda before
entering the house, "I am no believer in accident. I believe that of the
so-called 'happenings' in our lives, each has its appointed time and
mission; and it is not for us to say which is trivial or which is
important, until, knowing as we are known, we look back upon life as God
sees it."




_Chapter VIII_

"UNTIL THE DAY BREAK"


A week later Darrell was duly installed at the mining camp. Mr. Britton
had already left, called on private business to another part of the
State. After his departure, life at The Pines did not seem the same to
Darrell. He sorely missed the companionship--amounting almost to
comradeship, notwithstanding the disparity of their years--which had
existed between them from their first meeting, and he was not sorry when
the day came for him to exchange the comfort and luxury with which the
kindness of Mr. Underwood and his sister had surrounded him for the
rough fare and plain quarters of the mining camp.

Mrs. Dean, when informed of Darrell's position at the camp, had most
strenuously objected to his going, and had immediately stipulated that
he was to return to The Pines every Saturday and remain until Monday.

"Of course he's coming home every Saturday, and as much oftener as he
likes," her brother had interposed. "This is his home, and he
understands it without any words from us."

On the morning of his departure he realized as never before the depth of
the affection of his host and hostess for himself, manifesting itself as
it did in silent, unobtrusive acts of homely but heartfelt kindness. As
the storing of Darrell's belongings in the wagon which was to convey him
to the camp was about completed, Mrs. Dean appeared, carrying a large,
covered basket, with snow-white linen visible between the gaping edges
of the lids. This she deposited within the wagon, saying, as she turned
to Darrell,--

"There's a few things to last you through the week, just so you don't
forget how home cooking tastes."

And at the last moment there was brought from the stables at Mr.
Underwood's orders, for Darrell's use in going back and forth between
The Pines and the camp, a beautiful bay mare which had belonged to Harry
Whitcomb, and which, having sadly missed her young master, greeted
Darrell with a low whinny, muzzling his cheek and nosing his pockets for
sugar with the most affectionate familiarity.

It was a cold, bleak morning. The ground had frozen after a heavy rain,
and the wagon jolted roughly over the ruts in the canyon road, making
slow progress. The sky was overcast and straggling snowflakes wandered
aimlessly up and down in the still air.

Darrell, from his seat beside the driver, turned occasionally to speak
to Trix, the mare, fastened to the rear end of the wagon and daintily
picking her way along the rough road. Sometimes he hummed a bit of
half-remembered song, but for the most part he was silent. While not
attempting any definite analysis of his feelings, he was distinctly
conscious of conflicting emotions. He was deeply touched by the kindness
of Mr. Underwood and Mrs. Dean, and felt a sort of self-condemnation
that he was not more responsive to their affection. He knew that their
home and hearts were alike open to him; that he was as welcome as one of
their own flesh and blood; yet he experienced a sense of relief at
having escaped from the unvarying kindliness for which, at heart, he was
profoundly grateful. Even late that night, in the solitude of his
plainly furnished room, with the wind moaning outside and the snow
tapping with muffled fingers against the window pane, he yet exulted in
a sense of freedom and happiness hitherto unknown in the brief period
which held all he recalled of life.

The ensuing days and weeks passed pleasantly and swiftly for Darrell. He
quickly familiarized himself with the work which he had in charge, and
frequently found leisure, when his routine work was done, for
experiments and tests of his own, as well as for outside work which came
to him as his skill became known in neighboring camps. His evenings were
well filled, as he had taken up his old studies along the lines of
mineralogy and metallurgy, pushing ahead into new fields of research and
discovery, studying by night and experimenting by day. Meanwhile, the
rocky peaks around him seemed beckoning him with their talismanic signs,
as though silently challenging him to learn the mighty secrets for ages
hidden within their breasts, and he promised himself that with the
return of lengthening days, he would start forth, a humble learner, to
sit at the feet of those great teachers of the centuries. He had
occasional letters from Mr. Britton, cheering, inspiring, helpful, much
as his presence had been, and in return he wrote freely of his present
work and his plans for future work.

Sometimes, when books were closed or the plaintive tones of the violin
had died away in silence, he would sit for hours pondering the strange
problem of his own life; watching, listening for some sign from out the
past; but neither ray of light nor wave of sound came to him. His
physician had told him that some day the past would return, and that the
intervening months or years as the case might be, would then doubtless
be in turn forgotten, and as he revolved this in his mind he formed a
plan which he at once proceeded to put into execution.

On his return one night from a special trip to Ophir he went to his room
with more than usual haste, and opening a package in which he seemed
greatly interested, drew forth what appeared to be a book, about eleven
by fifteen inches in size, bound in flexible morocco and containing some
five or six hundred pages. The pages were blank, however, and bound
according to an ingenious device which he had planned and given the
binder, by which they could be removed and replaced at will, and, if
necessary, extra pages could be added.

For some time he stood by the light, turning the volume over and over
with an expression of mingled pleasure and sadness; then removing some
of the pages, he sat down and prepared to write. The new task to which
he had set himself was the writing of a complete record, day by day, of
this present life of his, beginning with the first glimmerings of
memory, faint and confused, in the earliest days of his convalescence at
The Pines. He dipped his pen, then hesitated; how should this strange
volume be inscribed?

Only for a moment; then his pen was gliding rapidly over the spotless
surface, and the first page, when laid aside, bore the following
inscription:

     "To one from the outer world, whose identity is hidden among the
     secrets of the past:

     "With the hope that when the veil is lifted these pages may assist
     him in uniting into one perfect whole the strangely disjointed
     portions of his life, they are inscribed by

                                            "JOHN DARRELL."

Below was the date, and then followed the words,--

     "Until the day break, and the shadows flee away."

After penning the last words he paused, repeating them, vainly trying to
recall when or where he had heard them. They seemed to ring in his ears
like a strain of melody wafted from some invisible shore, and blending
with the minor undertone he caught a note of triumph. They had come to
him like a voice from out the past, but ringing with joyful assurance
for the future; the assurance that the night, however dark, must end in
a glorious dawning, in which no haunting shadow would have an
abiding-place.




_Chapter IX_

TWO PORTRAITS


The winter proved to be mild and open, so that Darrell's weekly visits
to The Pines were made with almost unbroken regularity, and to his
surprise he discovered as the months slipped away that, instead of a
mere obligation which he felt bound to perform, they were becoming a
source of pleasure. After a week of unremitting toil and study and
contact with the rough edges of human nature, there was something
unspeakably restful in the atmosphere of that quiet home; something
soothing in the silent, steadfast affection, the depth of which he was
only beginning to fathom.

One Saturday evening in the latter part of April Darrell was, as usual,
descending the canyon road on his way to The Pines. For weeks the winter
had lingered as though loath to leave, and Darrell, absorbed in work and
study, had gone his way, hiding his loneliness and suffering so deeply
as to be ofttimes forgotten even by himself, and at all times
unsuspected by those about him. Then, in one night had come the warm
breath of the west winds, and within a few hours the earth was
transformed as though by magic, and the restless longing within his
breast awoke with tenfold intensity.

As he rode along he was astounded at the changes wrought in one week.
From the southern slopes of the mountains the snow had almost
disappeared and the sunny exposures of the ranges were fast brightening
into vivid green. The mountain streams had burst their icy fetters and,
augmented by the melting snows, were roaring tumultuously down their
channels, tumbling and plunging over rocky ledges in sheets of
shimmering silver or foaming cascades; then, their mad frolic ended,
flowing peacefully through distant valleys onward to the rivers, ever
chanting the song which would one day blend in the great ocean
harmonies.

The frail flowers, clinging to the rocks and smiling fearlessly up into
the face of the sun, the silvery sheen of the willows along the distant
water-courses, the softened outlines and pale green of budding
cottonwoods in the valleys far below, all told of the newly released
life currents bounding through the veins of every living thing. From the
lower part of the canyon, the wild, ecstatic song of a robin came to him
on the evening breeze, and in the slanting sunbeams myriads of tiny
midges held high carnival. The whole earth seemed pulsating with new
life, and tree and flower, bird and insect were filled anew with the
unspeakable joy of living.

Amid this universal baptism of life, what wonder that he felt his own
pulse quicken and the warm life-blood leaping swiftly within his veins!
His heart but throbbed in unison with the great heart of Nature, but its
very beating stifled him as the sense of his own restrictions came back
upon him with crushing weight. For one moment he paused, his spirit
struggling wildly against the bars imprisoning it; then, with a look
towards the skies of dumb, appealing anguish, he rode onward, his head
bowed, his heart sick with unutterable longing.

Arriving at The Pines, he received the usual welcome, but neither its
undemonstrative affection nor the restful quiet of the old home could
soothe or satisfy him that night. But if his host and hostess noted the
gloom on his face or his restless manner they made no comments and asked
no questions.

On going upstairs at a late hour he went across the hall to the
libraries in search of a book with which to pass away the time, as he
was unable to sleep. He had no definite book in mind and wandered
aimlessly through both rooms, reading titles in an abstracted manner,
until he came at last face to face with the picture of Kate Underwood.

He had seen it many times without especially observing it, but in his
present mood it appealed to him as never before. The dark eyes seemed
fixed upon his face with a look of entreaty from which he could not
escape, and, drawing a chair in front of the easel, he sat down and
became absorbed in a study of the picture. Heretofore he had considered
it merely the portrait of a very young and somewhat plain girl. Now he
was surprised to find that the more it was studied in detail, the more
favorable was the impression produced. Though childish and immature,
there was not a weak line in the face. The nose and mouth were
especially fine, the former denoting distinct individuality, the latter
marked strength and sweetness of character; and while the upper part of
the face indicated keen perceptions and quick sympathies, the general
contour showed a nature strong either to do or to endure. The eyes were
large and beautiful, but it was not their beauty which riveted Darrell's
attention; it was their look of wistful appeal, of unsatisfied longing,
which led him at last to murmur, while his eyes moistened,--

"You dear child! How is it that in your short life, surrounded by all
that love can provide, you have come to know such heart hunger as that?"

Long after he had returned to his room those eyes still haunted him,
nor could he banish the conviction that some time, somewhere, in that
young life there had been an unfilled void which in some degree, however
slight, corresponded to the blank emptiness of his own.

The next morning Darrell attended church with Mrs. Dean. The latter was
a strict church-woman, and Darrell, by way of showing equal courtesy to
host and hostess, usually accompanied her in the morning, devoting the
afternoon to Mr. Underwood.

After lunch he and Mr. Underwood seated themselves in one of the sunny
bay-windows for their customary chat, Mrs. Dean having gone to her room
for the afternoon nap which was as much a part of her Sunday programme
as the morning sermon.

For a while they talked of the latest developments at the mines, but Mr.
Underwood seemed preoccupied, gazing out of the window and frowning
heavily. At last, after a long silence, he said, slowly,--

"I expect we're going to have trouble at the camp this season."

"How is that?" Darrell asked quickly, in a tone of surprise.

"Oh, it's some of this union business," the other answered, with a
gesture of impatience, "and about the most foolish proposition I ever
heard of, at that. But," he added, decidedly, "they know my position;
they know they'll get no quarter from me. I've steered clear of them so
far; they've let me alone and I've let them alone, but when it comes to
a parcel of union bosses undertaking to run my business or make terms to
me, I'll fight 'em to a finish, and they know it."

Darrell, watching the face of the speaker, saw the lines about his mouth
harden and his lips settle into a grim smile that boded no good to his
opponents.

"What do they want--higher wages or shorter hours?" he inquired.

"Neither," said Mr. Underwood, shortly, as he re-lighted his pipe. After
a few puffs he continued:

"As I said before, it's the most foolish proposition I ever heard of.
You see, there's five or six camps, all told, in the neighborhood of our
camp up there. One or two of the lot, like the Buckeye group, for
instance, are run by men that haven't much capital, and I suppose are
working as economically as they can. Anyhow, there's been some kicking
over there among the miners about the grub, and the upshot of the whole
thing is that the union has taken the matter in hand and is going to
open a union boarding-house and take in the men from all the camps at
six bits a day for each man, instead of the regular rate of a dollar a
day charged by the mining companies."

"The scale of wages to remain the same, I suppose," said Darrell; "so
that means a gain to each man of twenty-five cents a day?"

"Exactly," said Mr. Underwood. "It means a gain of two bits a day to
each man; it means loss and inconvenience to the companies, and it means
a big pile of money in the pockets of the bosses who are running the
thing."

"There are not many of the owners up there that can stand that sort of
thing," said Darrell, reflectively.

"Of course they can't stand it, and they won't stand it if they've got
any backbone! Take Dwight and Huntley; they've been to heavy expense in
enlarging their mill and have just put up a new boarding-house, and
they're in debt; they can't afford to have all that work and expenditure
for nothing. Now, with us the loss wouldn't be so great as with the
others, for we don't make so much out of our boarding-house. My motto
has always been 'Live and let live,' and I give my men a good
table,--just what I'd want for myself if I were in their places. It
isn't the financial part that troubles me. What I object to is this: I
won't have my men tramping three-quarters of a mile for meals that won't
be as good as they can get right on their own grounds; more than that,
I've got a good, likely set of men, and I won't have them demoralized by
herding them in with the tough gangs from those other camps; and above
all and once for all,"--here Mr. Underwood's tones became excited as he
exclaimed, with an oath,--"I've always been capable of running my own
business, and I'll run it yet, and no damned union boss will ever run it
for me!"

"How do the men feel about it? Have you talked with them?" Darrell
inquired.

"There isn't one of them that's dissatisfied or would leave of his own
free will," Mr. Underwood replied, "but I don't suppose they would dare
to stand out against the bosses. Why, man, if the workingmen only knew
it, they are ten times worse slaves to the union bosses than ever they
were to corporations. They have to pay over their wages to let those
fellows live like nabobs; they have to come and go at their beck and
call, and throw up good positions and live in enforced idleness because
of some other fellows' grievances; they don't dare express an opinion or
say their souls are their own. Humph!"

"Mr. Underwood," said Darrell, who had been smilingly listening to the
other's tirade, "what will you do if this comes to a strike?"

"Strike!" he exclaimed in tones of scathing contempt. "Strike? I'll
strike too, and they'll find I can strike just as hard as they can, and
a little harder!"

"Will you close down?"

The shrewd face grew a bit shrewder. "If it's necessary to close down,"
he remarked, evasively, "I'll close down. I guess I can stand it as long
as they can. Those mines have lain there in those rocks idle for
centuries, for aught that I know; 'twon't hurt 'em to lie idle a few
weeks or months now; nobody'll run off with 'em, I guess."

Darrell laughed aloud. "Well, one thing is certain, Mr. Underwood; I,
for one, wouldn't want to quarrel with you!"

Mr. Underwood slowly shook his head. "You'd better not try it, my boy;
you'd better not!"

"When do you expect this trouble to come to a head?" Darrell asked at
length.

"Some time in the early part of July, probably; they expect to get their
arrangements completed by that time."

A long silence followed; Mrs. Dean came softly into the room and took
her accustomed seat, and, as Mr. Underwood made it a point never to talk
of business matters in his sister's presence, nothing more was said
regarding the prospective disturbance at the mines.

After dinner the beauty of the sunset brought them out upon the veranda.
The air was warm and fragrant with the breath of spring. The buds were
swelling on the lilacs near the house, and out on the lawn, beyond the
driveway, millions of tiny spears of living green trembled in the light
breeze.

"David," said Mrs. Dean, presently, "have you shown Mr. Darrell that
picture of Katherine that came yesterday?"

"I declare! No; I had forgotten it!" Mr. Underwood exclaimed.

"It's well for you she isn't here to hear you say that!" Mrs. Dean
remarked, smiling.

"Puss knows her old father well enough to know he wouldn't forget her
very long. Bring the picture out, Marcia."

Darrell heard Mrs. Dean approaching, and turned, with the glory of the
sunset in his eyes.

"Don't you want to see Katherine's new picture?" she inquired.

Her words instantly recalled the portrait he had studied the preceding
night, and with that in his mind he took the picture she handed him and
silently compared the two.

Ah, the beauty of the spring, everywhere confronting him, was in that
face also; the joy of a life as yet pure, untainted, and untrammelled.
It was like looking into the faces of the spring flowers which reflect
only the sunshine, the purity and the sweetness of earth. There was a
touch of womanly dignity, too, in the poise of the head, but the
beautiful eyes, though lighted with the faint dawn of coming womanhood,
were the same as those that had appealed to him the night before with
their wistful longing.

"It is a fine portrait, but as I do not remember her, I cannot judge
whether it is like herself or not," he said, handing the picture to Mr.
Underwood, who seemed almost to devour it with his eyes, though he spoke
no word and not a muscle moved in his stern, immobile face.

"She is getting to be such a young lady," remarked Mrs. Dean, "that I
expect when she comes home we will feel as though she had grown away
from us all."

"She will never do that, Marcia, never!" said Mr. Underwood, brusquely,
as he abruptly left the group and went into the house.

There was a moment's silence, then Mrs. Dean said, in a low tone,--

"She is getting to look just like her mother. I haven't seen David so
affected since his wife died as he was when that picture came
yesterday."

Darrell bowed silently, in token that he understood.

"She was a lovely woman, but she was very different from any of our
folks," she added, with a sigh, "and I guess Katherine is going to be
just like her."

"When is Miss Underwood expected home?" Darrell inquired.

"About the last of June," was the reply.

Long after the sun had set Darrell paced up and down the veranda,
pausing at intervals to gaze with unseeing eyes out over the peaceful
scene below him, his only companions his own troubled thoughts. The
young moon was shining, and in its pale radiance his set face gleamed
white like marble.

Like, and yet unlike, it was to the face of the sleeper journeying
westward on that summer afternoon eight months before. Experience, the
mighty sculptor, was doing his work, and doing it well; only a few lines
as yet, here and there, and the face was already stronger, finer. But it
was the face of one hardened by his own sufferings, not softened by the
sufferings of others. The sculptor's work was as yet only begun.




_Chapter X_

THE COMMUNION OF TWO SOULS


Gradually the springtide crept upward into the heart of the mountains,
quickening the pulses of the rocks themselves until even the mosses and
lichens slumbering at their feet awakened to renewed life. Bits of green
appeared wherever a grass root could push its way through the rocky
soil, and fragile wild flowers gleamed, starlike, here and there, fed by
tiny rivulets which trickled from slowly melting snows on the summits
far above.

With the earliest warm days Darrell had started forth to explore the
surrounding mountains, eager to learn the secrets which they seemed ever
challenging him to discover. New conditions confronted him, sometimes
baffling him, but always inciting to renewed effort. His enthusiasm was
so aroused that often, when his day's work was done, taking a light
lunch with him, he pursued his studies while the daylight lasted,
walking back in the long twilight, and in the solitude of his room
making full notes of the results of that day's research before retiring
for the night.

Returning one evening from one of these expeditions he saw, pacing back
and forth before the office building, a figure which he at once
recognized as that of Mr. Britton. Instantly all thought of work or
weariness was forgotten, and he hastened forward, while Mr. Britton,
catching sight of Darrell rapidly approaching, turned and came down the
road to meet him.

"A thousand welcomes!" Darrell cried, as soon as they were within
speaking distance; "say, but this is glorious to see you here! How long
have I kept you waiting?"

"A few hours, but that does not matter; it does us good to have to stop
and call a halt on ourselves once in a while. How are you, my son?" And
as the two grasped hands the elder man looked searchingly through the
gathering dusk into the face of the younger. Even in the dim twilight,
Darrell could feel that penetrating glance reading his inmost soul.

"I am well and doing well," he answered; "my physical health is perfect;
as for the rest--your coming is the very best thing that could have
happened. Are you alone?" he asked, eagerly, "or did Mr. Underwood come
with you?"

"I came alone," Mr. Britton replied, with quiet emphasis, linking his
arm within Darrell's as they ascended the road together.

"How long have you been in town?"

"But two days. I am on my way to the coast, and only stopped off for a
few days. I shall spend to-morrow with you, go back with you Saturday to
The Pines, and go on my way Monday."

Having made his guest as comfortable as possible in his own room,
Darrell laid aside his working paraphernalia, his hammer, and bag of
rock specimens, and donning a house coat and pair of slippers seated
himself near Mr. Britton, all the time conscious of the close but kindly
scrutiny with which the latter was regarding him.

"This is delightful!" he exclaimed; "but it is past my comprehension how
Mr. Underwood ever let you slip off alone!"

Mr. Britton looked amused. "I told him I was coming to see you, and I
think he intended coming with me till he heard me order my saddle-horse
for the trip. I think that settled the matter. I believe there can be no
perfect interchange of confidence except between two. The presence of a
third party--even though a mutual friend--breaks the magnetic circuit
and weakens the current of sympathy. Our interviews are necessarily
rare, and I want to make the most of them; therefore I would come to you
alone or not at all."

"Yes," Darrell replied; "your visits are so rare that every moment is
precious to me, and think of the hours I lost by my absence to-day!"

"Do you court Dame Nature so assiduously every day, subsisting on cold
lunches and tramping the mountains till nightfall?"

"Not every day, but as often as possible," Darrell replied, smiling.

"And I suppose if I were not here you would now be burrowing into that
pile over there?" Mr. Britton said, glancing significantly towards the
table covered to a considerable depth with books of reference,
note-books, writing-pads, and sheets of closely written manuscript.

"Let me show you what I am doing; it will take but a moment," said
Darrell, springing to his feet.

He drew forth several sets of extensive notes on researches and
experiments he was making along various lines of study, in which Mr.
Britton became at once deeply interested.

"You have a good thing here; stick to it!" he said at length, looking up
from the perusal of Darrell's geological notes, gathered from his
studies of the rock formations in that vicinity. "You have a fine field
in which to pursue this branch, and with the knowledge you already have
on this subject and the discoveries you are likely to make, you may be
able to make some very valuable contributions to the science one of
these days."

"That is just what I hope to do!" exclaimed Darrell eagerly; "just what
I am studying for day and night!"

"But you must use moderation," said Mr. Britton, smiling at the younger
man's enthusiasm; "you are young, you have years before you in which to
do this work, and this constant study, night and day, added to your
regular routine work, is too much for you. You are looking fagged
already."

"If I am, it is not the work that is fagging me," Darrell replied,
quickly, his tones becoming excited; "Mr. Britton, I must work; I must
accomplish all I can for two reasons. You say I have years before me in
which to do this work. God knows I hope I haven't got to work years like
this,--only half alive, you might say,--and when the change comes, if it
ever does, you know, of course, I cannot and would not remain here."

"I understand you would not remain here," said Mr. Britton slowly, and
laying his hand soothingly on the arm of his agitated companion, "but
you can readily see that not only your education, but your natural trend
of thought, is along these lines; therefore, when you are fully restored
to your normal self you will be the more--not the less--interested in
these things, and I predict that no matter when the time comes for you
to leave, you will, after a while, return to continue this same line of
work amid the same surroundings, but, we hope, under far happier
conditions."

Darrell shook his head slowly. "It does not seem to me that I would ever
wish to return to a place where I had suffered as I have here."

Mr. Britton smiled, one of his slow, sad, sweet smiles that Darrell
loved to watch, that seemed to dawn in his eyes and gradually to spread
until every feature was irradiated with a tender, beneficent light.

"I once thought as you do," he said, gently, "but after years of
wandering, I find that the place most sacred to me now is that hallowed
by the bitterest agony of my life."

Without replying Darrell unconsciously drew nearer to his friend, and a
brief silence followed, broken by Mr. Britton, who inquired, in a
lighter tone,--

"What is the other reason for your constant application to your work?
You said there were two."

Darrell bowed his head upon his hands as he answered in a low,
despairing tone,--

"To stop thinking, thinking, thinking; it will drive me mad!"

"I have been there, my boy; I know," Mr. Britton responded; then, after
a pause, he continued:

"Something in the tenor of your last letter made me anxious to come to
you. I thought I detected something of the old restlessness. Has the
coming of spring, quickening the life forces all around you, stirred the
life currents in your own veins till your spirit is again tugging at its
fetters in its struggles for release?"

With a startled movement Darrell raised his head, meeting the clear eyes
fixed upon him.

"How could you know?" he demanded.

"Because, as Emerson says, 'the heart in thee is the heart of all.'
There are few hearts whose pulses are not stirred by the magic influence
of the springtide, and under its potent spell I knew you would feel your
present limitations even more keenly than ever before."

"Thank God, you understand!" Darrell exclaimed; then continued,
passionately: "The last three weeks have been torture to me if I but
allowed myself one moment's thought. Wherever I look I see life--life,
perfect and complete in all its myriad forms--the life that is denied to
me! This is not living,--this existence of mine,--with brain shackled,
fettered, in many ways helpless as a child, knowing less than a child,
and not even mercifully wrapped in oblivion, but compelled to feel the
constant goading and galling of the fetters, to be reminded of them at
every turn! My God! if it were not for constant work and study I would
go mad!"

In the silence which followed Darrell's mind reverted to that autumn day
on which he had first met John Britton and confided to him his trouble;
and now, as then, he was soothed and strengthened by the presence beside
him, by the magnetism of that touch, although no word was spoken.

As he reviewed their friendship of the past months he became conscious
for the first time of its one-sidedness. He had often unburdened himself
to his friend, confiding to him his griefs, and receiving in turn
sympathy and counsel; but of the great, unknown sorrow that had wrought
such havoc in his own life, what word had John Britton ever spoken? As
Darrell recalled the bearing of his friend through all their
acquaintance and his silence regarding his own sufferings, his eyes grew
dim. The man at his side seemed, in the light of that revelation,
stronger, grander, nobler than ever before; not unlike to the giant
peaks whose hoary heads then loomed darkly against the starlit sky,
calm, silent, majestic, giving no token of the throes of agony which,
ages agone, had rent them asunder except in the mystic symbols graven on
their furrowed brows. In that light his own complaints seemed puerile.
At that moment Darrell was conscious of a new fortitude born within his
soul; a new purpose, henceforth to dominate his life.

A heavy sigh from Mr. Britton broke the silence. "I know the fetters are
galling," he said, "but have patience and hope, for, at the time
appointed, the shackles will be loosened, the fetters broken."

Darrell faced his companion, a new light in his eyes but recently so
dark with despair, as he asked, earnestly and tenderly,--

"Dearest and best of friends, is there no time appointed for the lifting
of the burden borne so nobly and uncomplainingly, 'lo, these many
years?'"

With a grave, sweet smile the elder man shook his head, and, rising,
began pacing up and down the room. "There are some burdens, my son, that
time cannot lift; they can only be laid down at the gates of eternity."

With a strange, choking sensation in his throat Darrell rose, and, going
to the window, stood looking out at the dim outlines of the neighboring
peaks. Their vast solitude no longer oppressed him as at the first; it
calmed and soothed him in his restless moods, and to-night those grim
monarchs dwelling in silent fellowship seemed to him the embodiment of
peace and rest.

After a time Mr. Britton paused beside him, and, throwing his arm about
his shoulders, asked,--

"What are your thoughts, my son?"

"Only a whim, a fancy that has taken possession of me the last few days,
since my wanderings among the mountains," he answered, lightly; "a
longing to bury myself in some sort of a retreat on one of these old
peaks and devote myself to study."

"And live a hermit's life?" Mr. Britton queried, with a peculiar smile.

"For a while, yes," Darrell replied, more seriously; "until I have
learned to fight these battles out by myself, and to conquer myself."

"There are battles," said the other, speaking thoughtfully, "which are
waged best in solitude, but self is conquered only by association with
one's fellows. Solitude breeds selfishness."

Mr. Britton had resumed his pacing up and down, but a few moments later,
as he approached Darrell, the latter turned, suddenly confronting him.

"My dear friend," he said, "you have been everything to me; you have
done everything for me; I ask you to do one thing more,--forgive and
answer this question: How have you conquered?"

The look of pain that crossed his companion's face filled Darrell with
regret for what he had said, but before he could speak again Mr. Britton
replied gently, with his old smile,--

"I doubt whether I have yet wholly conquered; but whatever victory is
mine, I have won, not in solitude and seclusion, but in association with
the sorrowing, the suffering, the sinning, and in sharing their burdens
I found rest from my own."

He paused a moment, then continued, his glowing eyes holding Darrell as
though under a spell:

"I know not why, but since our first meeting you have given me a new
interest, a new joy in life. I have been drawn to you and I have loved
you as I thought never again to love any human being, and some day I
will tell you what I have told no other human being,--the story of my
life."

On Saturday Mr. Britton and Darrell returned to The Pines. The
increasing intimacy between them was evident even there. For the last
day or so Mr. Britton had fallen into the habit of addressing Darrell by
his Christian name, much to the latter's delight. For this Mrs. Dean
laughingly called him to account, compelling Mr. Britton to come to his
own defence.

"'John,'" he exclaimed; "of course I'll call him 'John.' It seems
wonderfully pleasant to me. I've always wanted a namesake, and I can
consider him one."

"A namesake!" ejaculated Mrs. Dean, smiling broadly; "I wonder if
there's a poor family or one that's seen trouble of any kind anywhere
around here that hasn't a 'John Britton' among its children! I should
think you had namesakes enough now!"

"One might possibly like to have one of his own selection," he replied,
dryly.

As Darrell took leave of Mr. Britton the following Monday morning the
latter said,--

"By the way, John, whenever you are ready to enter upon that hermit life
let me know; I'll provide the hermitage."

"Are you joking?" Darrell queried, unable to catch his meaning.

"Never more serious in my life," he replied, with such unusual gravity
that Darrell forbore to question further.




_Chapter XI_

IMPENDING TROUBLE


The five or six weeks following Mr. Britton's visit passed so swiftly
that Darrell was scarcely conscious of their flight. His work at the
mill, which had been increased by valuable strikes recently made in the
mines, in addition to considerable outside work in the way of attests
and assays, had left him little time for study or experiment. For nearly
three weeks he had not left the mining camp, the last two Saturdays
having found him too weary with the preceding week's work to undertake
the long ride to Ophir.

During this time Mr. Underwood had been a frequent visitor at the camp,
led not only by his interest in the mining developments, but also by his
curiosity regarding the progress made by the union in the construction
of its boarding-house, and also to watch the effect on his own
employees.

Entering the laboratory one day after one of his rounds of the camp, he
stood for some time silently watching Darrell at his work.

"In case of a shut-down here," he said at length, speaking abruptly,
"how would you like a clerical position in my office down there at
Ophir,--book-keeping or something of the sort,--just temporarily, you
know?"

Darrell looked up from his work in surprise. "Do you regard a shut-down
as imminent?" he inquired, smiling.

"Well, yes; there's no half-way measures with me. No man that works for
me will go off the grounds for his meals. But that isn't answering my
question."

Darrell's face grew serious. "You forget, Mr. Underwood, that until I am
put to the test, I have no means of knowing whether or not I can do the
work you wish done."

"By George! I never once thought of that!" Mr. Underwood exclaimed,
somewhat embarrassed, adding, hastily, "but then, I didn't mean
book-keeping in particular, but clerical work generally; copying
instruments, looking up records, and so on. You see, it's like this," he
continued, seating himself near Darrell; "I'm thinking of taking in a
partner--not in this mining business, it has nothing to do with that,
but just in my mortgage-loan business down there; and in case I do,
we'll need two or three additional clerks and book-keepers, and I
thought you might like to come in just temporarily until we resume
operations here. Of course, the salary wouldn't be so very much, but I
thought it might be better than nothing to bridge over."

"How long do you expect to be closed down here, Mr. Underwood?"

"Until the men come to their senses or we find others to take their
places," the elder man answered, decidedly; "it may be six weeks or it
may be six months. I was talking with Dwight, from the Buckeye Camp,
this morning. He says they've been to too much expense to put up with
the proposition for a moment; they simply can't stand it, and won't;
they'll shut down and pull out first. I don't believe that mine is
paying very well, anyway."

"Mr. Underwood," said Darrell, slowly, "if this were a question of
accommodation to yourself, of coming into your office and helping you
out personally, I would gladly do it; salary would be no object; but to
take a merely clerical position for an indefinite time when I have a
good, lucrative profession does not seem to me a very wise policy. There
must be plenty of assaying to be done in Ophir; why couldn't I
temporarily open an office there?"

"I guess there's no reason why you couldn't if you want to," Mr.
Underwood replied, evidently disappointed by Darrell's reply and eying
him sharply, "and if you want to open up an office of your own there's
plenty of room for you in our building. You know the building was
formerly occupied by one of Ophir's wildcat banks that collapsed in the
general crash six years ago, and there's a fine lot of private offices
in the rear, opening on the side street; one of those rooms fitted up
would be just the place for you."

"Much obliged," said Darrell, smiling; "we'll see about it if the time
comes that I need it. Possibly your prospective partner will have use
for all the private offices."

"I guess I'll have some say about that," Mr. Underwood returned,
gruffly; then, after a short pause, he continued: "I haven't fully
decided about this partnership business. I talked it over with Jack when
he was here, but he didn't seem to favor the idea; told me that at my
age I had better let well enough alone. I told him that I didn't see
what my age had to do with it, that I was capable of looking after my
own interests, partner or no partner, but that I'd no objection to
having some one else take the brunt of the work while I looked on."

"Is the man a stranger or an acquaintance?" Darrell inquired.

"I'm not personally acquainted with him, but he's not exactly a
stranger, for he's lived in Ophir, off and on, for the last five years.
His name is Walcott. He says his father is an Englishman and very
wealthy; he himself, I should judge, has some Spanish blood in his
veins. He spends part of his time in Texas, where he has heavy cattle
interests; in fact, has been there for the greater part of the past
year. He wants to go into the mortgage-loan business, and offers to put
in seventy-five thousand and give his personal attention to the business
for thirty-three and a third per cent. of the profits."

"What has been his business in Ophir all these years?"

"Life insurance mostly, I believe; had two offices, one in Ophir and one
at Galena, and has also done some private loan business."

"What sort of a reputation has he?"

"First-rate. I've made a number of inquiries about him in both places,
and nobody has a word to say against him; very quiet, minds his own
business, a man of few words; just about my sort of a man, I should
judge," Mr. Underwood concluded as he rose from his chair.

"Well, Mr. Underwood," said Darrell, "whatever arrangements you decide
to make, I wish you success."

"No more than I do you, my boy, in anything your pig-headedness leads
you into," Mr. Underwood replied, brusquely, but with a humorous twinkle
in his eyes. "Confound you!" he added; "I'd help you if you'd give me a
chance, but maybe it's best to let you 'gang your ain gait.'" And he
walked out of the room before Darrell could reply.

A moment later he looked in at the door. "By the way, if you're not at
The Pines by five o'clock sharp next Saturday afternoon, Marcia says
she's going to send an officer up here after you with a writ of habeas
corpus, or something of the sort."

"All right; I'll be there," Darrell laughed.

"You'll find the old place a bit brighter than you've seen it yet, for
we had a letter from Puss this morning that she'll be home to-morrow."

With the last words the door closed and Darrell was left alone with his
thoughts, to which, however, he could then give little time. But when
the day's work was done he went for a stroll, and, seating himself upon
a large rock, carefully reviewed the situation.

Hitherto he had given little thought to the impending trouble at the
camp, supposing it would affect himself but slightly; but he now
realized that a suspension of operations there would mean an entire
change in his mode of living. The prospective change weighed on his
sensitive spirits like an incubus. Even The Pines, he dismally
reflected, would no longer seem the same quiet, homelike retreat, since
it was to be invaded and dominated by a youthful presence between whom
and himself there would probably be little congeniality.

But finally telling himself that these reflections were childish, he
rose as the last sunset rays were sinking behind the western ranges and
the rosy flush on the summits was fading, and, walking swiftly to his
room, resolutely buried himself in his studies.




_Chapter XII_

NEW LIFE IN THE OLD HOME


On the following Saturday, as Darrell ascended the long driveway leading
to The Pines, he was startled at the transformation which the place had
undergone since last he was there. The rolling lawn seemed carpeted with
green velvet, enlivened here and there with groups of beautiful foliage
plants. Fountains were playing in the sunlight, their glistening spray
tinted with rainbow lights. Flowers bloomed in profusion, their colors
set off by the gray background of the stone walls of the house. The
syringas by the bay-windows were bent to the ground with their burden of
snowy blossoms, whose fragrance, mingled with that of the June roses,
greeted him as he approached. He forgot his three weeks' absence and the
rapid growth in that high altitude; the change seemed simply magical.
Then, as he caught a glimpse through the pines of a slender, girlish
figure, dressed in white, darting hither and thither, he wondered no
longer; it was but the fit accompaniment of the young, joyous life which
had come to the old place.

As he came out into the open, he saw a young girl romping up and down
before the house with a fine Scotch collie, and he could not restrain a
smile as he recalled Mrs. Dean's oft-repeated declaration that there was
one thing she would never tolerate, and that was a dog or a cat about
the house. She had not yet seen him; but when she did, the frolic ceased
and she started towards the house. Then suddenly she stopped, as though
she recognized some one or something, and stood awaiting his approach,
her lips parted in a smile, two small, shapely hands shading her eyes
from the sun. As he came nearer, he had time to note the lithe, supple
figure, just rounding into the graceful outlines of womanhood; the full,
smiling lips, the flushed cheeks, and the glint of gold in her brown
hair; and the light, the beauty, the fragrance surrounding her seemed an
appropriate setting to the picture. She was a part of the scene.

Darrell, of course, had no knowledge of his own age, but at that moment
he felt very remote from the embodiment of youth before him; he seemed
to himself to have been suddenly relegated to the background, among the
elder members of the family.

The collie had been standing beside his mistress with his head on one
side, regarding Darrell with a sharp, inquisitive look, and he now broke
the silence, which threatened to prove rather embarrassing, with a short
bark.

"Hush, Duke!" said the girl, in a low tone; then, as Darrell dismounted,
she came swiftly towards him, extending her hand.

"This is Mr. Darrell, I know," she said, speaking quite rapidly in a
clear, musical voice, without a shade of affectation, "and you probably
know who I am, so we will need no introduction."

"Yes, Miss Underwood," said Darrell, smiling into the beautiful brown
eyes, "I would have recognized you anywhere from your picture."

"And you have Trix, haven't you?" she exclaimed, turning to caress the
mare. "Dear old Trix! Just let her go, Mr. Darrell; she will go to the
stables of her own accord and Bennett will take care of her; that was
the way Harry taught her. Go find Bennett, Trix!"

They watched Trix follow the driveway and disappear around the corner,
then both turned towards the house.

"Auntie is out just now," said the girl; "she had to go down town, but I
am expecting her back every minute. Will you go into the house, Mr.
Darrell, or do you prefer a seat on the veranda?"

"The veranda looks inviting; suppose we sit here," Darrell suggested.

They had reached the steps leading to the entrance. On the top step the
collie had seated himself and was now awaiting their approach with the
air of one expecting due recognition.

"Mr. Darrell," said the young girl, with a merry little laugh, "allow me
to present you to His Highness, the Duke of Argyle!"

The collie gave his head a slight backward toss, and, with great
dignity, extended his right paw to Darrell, which the latter, instantly
entering into the spirit of the joke, took, saying, with much gravity,--

"I am pleased to meet His Highness!"

The girl's brown eyes danced with enjoyment.

"You have made a friend of him for life, now," she said as they seated
themselves, Duke stationing himself at her side in such a manner as to
show his snow-white vest and great double ruff to the best possible
advantage. "He is a very aristocratic dog, and if any one fails to show
him what he considers proper respect, he is greatly affronted."

"He certainly is a royal-looking fellow," said Darrell, "but I cannot
imagine how you ever gained Mrs. Dean's consent to his presence here.
You must possess even more than the ordinary powers of feminine
persuasion."

"Aunt Marcia?" laughed the girl; "oh, well, you see it was a case of
'love me, love my dog.' Wherever I go, Duke must go, so auntie had to
submit to the inevitable."

Darrell found the situation far less embarrassing than he had expected.
His young companion, with keen, womanly intuition, had divined something
of his feeling, and tactfully avoiding any allusion to their previous
meeting, of which he had no recollection, kept the conversation on
subjects within the brief span of his memory. She seemed altogether
unconscious of the peculiar conditions surrounding himself, and the
brown eyes, meeting his own so frankly, had in their depths nothing of
the curiosity or the pity he had so often encountered, and had grown to
dread. She appeared so childlike and unaffected, and her joyous,
rippling laughter proved so contagious, that unconsciously the extra
years which a few moments before seemed to have been added to his life
dropped away; the grave, tense lines of his face relaxed, and before he
was aware he was laughing heartily at the account of some school-girl
escapade or at some tricks performed by Duke for his especial
entertainment.

In the midst of their merriment they heard the sound of hoof-beats, and,
turning, saw the family carriage approaching, containing both Mr.
Underwood and his sister.

"You two children seem to be enjoying yourselves!" was Mr. Underwood's
comment as the carriage stopped.

Darrell sprang to Mrs. Dean's assistance as she alighted, while Kate
Underwood ran down the steps to meet her father. Both greeted Darrell
warmly, but Mrs. Dean retained his hand a moment as she looked at him
with genuine motherly interest.

"I'm glad the truant has returned," she said, with her quiet smile; "I
only hope it seems as good to you to come home as it does to us to have
you here!"

Darrell was touched by her unusual kindness. "You can rest assured that
it does, mother," he said, earnestly. He was astonished at the effect of
his words: her face flushed, her lips trembled, and as she passed on
into the house her eyes glistened with tears.

Darrell looked about him in bewilderment. "What have I said?" he
questioned; "how did I wound her feelings?"

"She lost a son years ago, and she's never got over it," Mr. Underwood
explained, briefly.

"You did not hurt her feelings--she was pleased," Kate hastened to
reassure him; "but did she never speak to you about it?"

"Never," Darrell replied.

"Well, that is not to be wondered at, for she seldom alludes to it. He
died years ago, before I can remember, but she always grieves for him;
that was the reason," she added, reflectively, half to herself, "that
she always loved Harry better than she did me."

"Better than you, you jealous little Puss!" said her father, pinching
her cheek; "don't you have love enough, I'd like to know?"

"I can never have too much, you know, papa," she answered, very
seriously, and Darrell, watching, saw in the brown eyes for the first
time the wistful look he had seen in the two portraits.

She soon followed her aunt, but her father and Darrell remained outside
talking of business matters until summoned to dinner. On entering the
house Darrell saw on every hand evidences of the young life in the old
home. There was just a pleasant touch of disorder in the rooms he had
always seen kept with such precision: here a bit of unfinished
embroidery; there a book open, face down, just where the fair reader had
left it; the piano was open and sheets of music lay scattered over it.
From every side came the fragrance of flowers, and in the usually sombre
dining-room Darrell noted the fireplace nearly concealed by palms and
potted plants, the chandelier trimmed with trailing vines, the epergne
of roses and ferns on the table, and the tiny boutonnières at his plate
and Mr. Underwood's. With a smile of thanks at the happy young face
opposite, he appropriated the one intended for himself, but Mr.
Underwood, picking up the one beside his plate, sat twirling it in his
fingers with a look of mock perplexity.

"Puss has introduced so many of her folderols I haven't got used to them
yet," he said. "How is this to be taken,--before eating, or after?" he
inquired, looking at her from under heavy, frowning brows.

"To be taken! Oh, papa!" she ejaculated; "why don't you put it on as Mr.
Darrell has his? Here, I'll fix it for you!"

With an air of resignation he waited while she fastened the flowers in
the lapel of his coat, giving the latter an approving little pat as she
finished.

"There!" she exclaimed; "you ought to see how nice you look!"

"H'm! I'm glad to hear it," he grunted; "I feel like a prize steer at a
county fair!"

In the laughter which followed Kate joined as merrily as the rest, and
no one but Darrell observed the deepening flush on her cheek or heard
the tremulous sigh when the laughter was ended.

After dinner they adjourned to the large sitting-room, Mr. Underwood
with his pipe, Mrs. Dean with her knitting, and Darrell, while
conversing with the former, watched with a new interest the latter's
placid face, wondering at the depth of feeling concealed beneath that
calm exterior.

As the twilight deepened and conversation began to flag, there came from
the piano a few sweet chords, followed by one of Chopin's dreamy
nocturnes. Mr. Underwood began to doze in his chair, and Darrell sat
silent, his eyes closed, his whole soul given up to the spell of the
music. Unconscious of the pleasure she was giving, Kate played till the
room was veiled in darkness; then going to the fireplace she lighted the
fire already laid--for the nights were still somewhat chilly--and sat
down on a low seat before the fire, while Duke came and lay at her feet.
It was a pretty picture; the young girl in white, her eyes fixed
dreamily on the glowing embers, the firelight dancing over her form and
face and lighting up her hair with gleams of gold; the dog at her feet,
his head thrown proudly back, and his eyes fastened on her face with a
look of loyal devotion seldom seen even in human eyes.

Happening to glance in Mr. Underwood's direction Darrell saw pride,
pleasure, and pain struggling for the mastery in the father's face as he
watched the picture in the firelight. Pain won, and with a sudden
gesture of impatience he covered his eyes with his hand, as though to
shut out the scene. It was but a little thing, but taken in connection
with the incident before dinner, it appealed to Darrell, showing, as it
did, the silent, stoical manner in which these people bore their grief.

Mrs. Dean's quiet voice interrupted his musings and broke the spell
which the music seemed to have thrown around them.

"You will have some one now, Katherine, to accompany you on the violin,
as you have always wanted; Mr. Darrell is a fine violinist."

Kate was instantly all animation. "Oh, that will be delightful, Mr.
Darrell!" she exclaimed, eagerly; "there is nothing I enjoy so much as a
violin accompaniment; it adds so much expression to the music. I think a
piano alone is so unsympathetic; you can't get any feeling out of it!"

"I'm afraid, Miss Underwood, I will prove a disappointment to you,"
Darrell replied; "I have never yet attempted any new music, or even to
play by note, and don't know what success I would have, if any. So far I
have only played what drifts to me--some way, I don't know how--from out
of the past."

The unconscious sadness in his voice stirred the depths of Kate's tender
heart. "Oh, that is too bad!" she exclaimed, quickly, thinking, not of
her own disappointment, but of his trouble of which she had unwittingly
reminded him; then she added, gently, almost timidly,--

"But you will, at any rate, let me hear you play, won't you?"

"Certainly, if it will give you any pleasure," he replied, with a slight
smile.

"Very well; then we will arrange it this way," she continued, her
cheerful manner restored; "you will play your music, and, if I am
familiar with it, I will accompany you on the piano. I will get out
Harry's violin to-morrow, and while auntie is taking her nap and papa is
engaged, we will see what we can accomplish in a musical way."

Before Darrell could reply, Mr. Underwood, who had started from his
revery, demanded,--

"What engagement are you talking about, you chatterbox?"

"I can't say, papa," she replied, playfully seating herself on the arm
of his chair; "I only know that when I asked your company for a walk
to-morrow afternoon, you pleaded a very important engagement. Now, how
is that?" she asked archly; "have you an engagement, really, or didn't
you care for my society?"

"Why, yes, to be sure; it had escaped my mind for the moment," her
father answered, rather vaguely she thought; then, looking at Darrell,
he said,--

"Walcott is coming to-morrow for my final decision in that matter."

Darrell bowed in token that he understood, but did not feel at liberty
to inquire whether the decision was to be favorable to Mr. Walcott, or
otherwise. Kate glanced quickly from one to the other, but before she
could speak her father continued:

"I rather think if he consents to two or three conditions which I shall
insist upon, that my answer will be in the affirmative."

"I thought that quite probable from your conversation the other day,"
Darrell replied.

"See here, papa!" Kate exclaimed, mischievously, "you needn't talk over
my head! You used to do so when I was little, but you can't any longer,
you know. Who is this 'Walcott,' and what is this important decision
about?"

Mr. Underwood, who did not believe in taking what he called the "women
folks" into his confidence regarding business affairs, looked
quizzically into the laughing face beside him.

"Didn't I hear you arranging some sort of a musical programme with Mr.
Darrell?" he inquired.

"Yes; what has that to do with your engagement?" she queried.

"Nothing whatever; only you carry out your engagement and I will mine,
and we'll compare notes afterwards."

For an instant her face sobered; then catching sight of her father's
eyes twinkling under their beetling brows, she laughingly withdrew from
his side, saying,--

"That's all very well; you can score one this time, papa, but don't you
think we won't come out pretty near even in the end!"

Upon learning from Darrell that the violin she expected him to use was
in his room at the mining camp, she then proposed a stroll to the summit
of the pine-clad mountain for the following afternoon, and having
secured his promise that he would bring the violin with him on his next
visit, she waltzed gayly across the floor, turned on the light, and
seating herself at the piano soon had the room ringing with music and
laughter while she sang a number of college songs.

To Darrell she seemed more child than woman, and he was constantly
impressed with her unlikeness to her father or aunt. She seemed to have
absolutely none of their self-repression. Warm-hearted, sympathetic, and
demonstrative, every shade of feeling betrayed itself in her sensitive,
mobile face and in the brown eyes, one moment pensive and wistful, the
next luminous with sympathy or dancing with merriment.

As Darrell took leave of Mrs. Dean that night, he said, looking frankly
into her calm, kindly face,--

"I am very sorry if I wounded your feelings this afternoon; it was
wholly unintentional, I assure you."

"You did not in the least," she answered; "it is so long since I have
been called by that name it took me by surprise, but it sounded very
pleasant to me. My boy, if he had lived, would have been just about your
age."

"It seemed pleasant to me to call you 'mother,'" said Darrell; "it made
me feel less like an outsider."

"You can call me so as often as you wish; you are no outsider here; we
consider you one of ourselves," she responded, with more warmth in her
tones than he had ever heard before.

The following morning Darrell accompanied the ladies to church. After
lunch he lounged for an hour or more in one of the hammocks on the
veranda, listening alternately to Mr. Underwood's comments as he
leisurely smoked his pipe, and to the faint tones of a mandolin coming
from some remote part of the house. Mr. Underwood grew more and more
abstracted, the mandolin ceased, and Darrell, soothed by his
surroundings to a temporary forgetfulness of his troubles, swung gently
back and forth in a sort of dreamy content. After a while, Kate
Underwood appeared, dressed for a walk, and, accompanied by Duke, the
two set forth for their mountain ramble, for the time as light-hearted
as two children.

Upon their return, two or three hours later, while still at a little
distance from the house, they saw Mr. Underwood and a stranger standing
together on the veranda. The latter, who was apparently about to take
his departure, and whom Darrell at once assumed to be Mr. Walcott, was
about thirty years of age, of medium height, with a finely proportioned
and rather muscular form, erect and dignified in his bearing, with a
lithe suppleness and grace in all his movements. He was standing with
his hat in his hand, and Darrell, who had time to observe him closely,
noting his jet-black hair, close cut excepting where it curled slightly
over his forehead, his black, silky moustache, and the oval contour of
his olive face, remembered Mr. Underwood's remark of the probability of
Spanish blood in his veins.

As they came near, Duke gave a low growl, but Kate instantly hushed him,
chiding him for his rudeness. At the sound, the stranger turned towards
them, and Mr. Underwood at once introduced Mr. Walcott to his daughter
and Mr. Darrell. He greeted them both with the most punctilious
courtesy, but as he faced Darrell, the latter saw for an instant in the
half-closed, blue-black eyes, the pity tinged with contempt to which he
had long since become accustomed, yet which, as often as he met it,
thrilled him anew with pain. The look passed, however, and Mr. Walcott,
in low, well-modulated tones, conversed pleasantly for a few moments
with the new-comers, the three young people forming a striking trio as
they stood there in the bright sunshine amid the June roses; then, with
a graceful adieu, he walked swiftly away.

As soon as he was out of hearing Mr. Underwood, turning to Darrell,
said,--

"It is decided; the papers will be drawn to-morrow."

Then taking his daughter's flushed, perplexed face between his hands, he
said,--

"Mr. Walcott and I are going into partnership; how do you like the looks
of my partner, Puss?"

She looked incredulous. "That young man your partner!" she exclaimed;
"why, he seems the very last man I should ever expect you to fancy!"
Then she added, laughing,--

"Oh, papa, I think he must have hypnotized you! Does Aunt Marcia know?
May I tell her?" And, having gained his consent, she ran into the house
to impart the news to Mrs. Dean.

"That's the woman of it!" said Mr. Underwood, grimly; "they always want
to immediately tell some other woman! But what do you think of my
partner?" he asked, looking searchingly at Darrell, who had not yet
spoken.

Darrell did not reply at once; he felt in some way bewildered. All the
content, the joy, the sunshine of the last few hours seemed to have been
suddenly blotted out, though he could not have told why. The remembrance
of that glance still stung him, but aside from that, he felt his whole
soul filled with an inexplicable antagonism towards this man.

"I hardly know yet just what I do think of him," he answered, slowly; "I
have not formed a definite opinion of him, but I think, as your daughter
says, he somehow seems the last man whom I would have expected you to
associate yourself with."

Mr. Underwood frowned. "I don't generally make mistakes in people," he
said, rather gruffly; "if I'm mistaken in this man, it will be the first
time."

Nothing further was said on the subject, though it remained uppermost in
the minds of both, with the result that their conversation was rather
spasmodic and desultory. At the dinner-table, Kate was quick to observe
the unusual silence, and, intuitively connecting it in some way with the
new partnership, refrained alike from question or comment regarding
either that subject or Mr. Walcott, while it was a rule with Mrs. Dean
never to refer to her brother's business affairs unless he first alluded
to them himself.

The evening passed more pleasantly, as Kate coaxed her father into
telling some reminiscences of his early western life, which greatly
interested Darrell. Something of the old restlessness had returned to
him, however. He spent a wakeful night, and was glad when morning came
and he could return to his work.

As he came out of the house at an early hour to set forth on his long
ride he found Kate engaged in feeding Trix with lumps of sugar. She
greeted him merrily, and as he started down the avenue he was followed
by a rippling laugh and a shower of roses, one of which he caught and
fastened in his buttonhole, but on looking back over his shoulder she
had vanished, and only Duke was visible.




_Chapter XIII_

MR. UNDERWOOD "STRIKES" FIRST


The ensuing days were filled with work demanding close attention and
concentration of thought, but often in the long, cool twilight, while
Darrell rested from his day's work before entering upon the night's
study, he recalled his visit to The Pines with a degree of pleasure
hitherto unknown. He had found Kate Underwood far different from his
anticipations, though just what his anticipations had been he did not
stop to define. There was at times a womanly grace and dignity in her
bearing which he would have expected from her portrait and which he
admired, but what especially attracted him was her utter lack of
affectation or self-consciousness. She was as unconscious as a child;
her sympathy towards himself and her pleasant familiarity with him were
those of a warm-hearted, winsome child.

He liked best to recall her as she looked that evening seated by the
fireside: the childish pose, the graceful outlines of her form
silhouetted against the light; the dreamy eyes, with their long golden
lashes curling upward; the lips parted in a half smile, and the gleam of
the firelight on her hair. But it was always as a child that he recalled
her, and the thought that to himself, or to any other, she could be
aught else never occurred to him. Of young Whitcomb's love for her, of
course, he had no recollection, nor had it ever been mentioned in his
hearing since his illness.

Day by day the work at the camp increased, and there also began to be
indications of an approaching outbreak among the men. The union
boarding-house was nearing completion; it was rumored that it would be
ready for occupancy within a week or ten days; the walking delegates
from the union could be frequently seen loitering about the camp,
especially when the changes in shifts were made, waiting to get word
with the men, and it was nothing uncommon to see occasional groups of
the men engaged in argument, which suddenly broke off at the appearance
of Darrell, or of Hathaway, the superintendent.

So engrossed was Mr. Underwood with the arrangement of details for the
inauguration of the new firm of Underwood & Walcott that he was unable
to be at the camp that week. On Saturday afternoon Darrell, having
learned that Hathaway was to be gone over Sunday, and believing it best
under existing circumstances not to leave the camp, sent Mr. Underwood a
message to that effect, and also informing him of the status of affairs
there.

Early the following week Mr. Underwood made his appearance at the camp,
and if the union bosses had entertained any hope of effecting a
compromise with the owner of Camp Bird, as it was known, such hope must
have been blasted upon mere sight of that gentleman's face upon his
arrival. Darrell himself could scarcely restrain a smile of amusement as
they met. Mr. Underwood fairly bristled with defiance, and, after the
briefest kind of a greeting, started to make his usual rounds of the
camp. He stopped abruptly, fumbled in his pocket for an instant, then,
handing a dainty envelope to Darrell, hastened on without a word.
Darrell saw smiles exchanged among the men, but he preserved the utmost
gravity until, having reached his desk, he opened and read the little
note. It contained merely a few pleasant lines from Kate, expressing
disappointment at his failure to come to The Pines on the preceding
Saturday, and reminding him of his promise concerning the violin; but
the postscript, which in true feminine style comprised the real gist of
the note, made him smile audibly. It ran:

     "Papa has donned his paint and feathers this morning and is
     evidently starting out on the war-path. I haven't an idea whose
     scalps he intends taking, but hope you will at least preserve your
     own intact."

At dinner Mr. Underwood maintained an ominous silence, replying in
monosyllables to any question or remark addressed to him. He soon left
the table, and Darrell did not see him again till late in the afternoon,
when he entered the laboratory. A glance at the set lines of his face
told Darrell as plainly as words that his line of action was fully
determined upon, and that it would be as fixed and unalterable as the
laws of the Medes and Persians.

"I am going home now," he announced briefly, in reply to Darrell's
somewhat questioning look; "I'll be back here the last of the week."

"What do you think of the outlook, Mr. Underwood?" Darrell inquired.

"It is about what I expected. I have seen all the men. They are, as I
supposed, under the thumb of the union bosses. A few of them realize
that the whole proposition is unreasonable and absurd, and they don't
want to go out, but they don't dare say so above their breath, and they
don't dare disobey orders, because they are owned, body and soul, by the
union."

"Have any of the leaders tried to make terms?"

"I met one of their 'walking delegates' this morning," said Mr.
Underwood, with scornful emphasis; "I told him to 'walk' himself out of
the camp or I'd boot him out; and he walked!"

Darrell laughed. Mr. Underwood continued: "The boarding-house opens on
Thursday; on next Monday every man not enrolled in that institution will
be ordered out."

"It's to be a strike then, sure thing, is it?" Darrell asked.

"Yes, there'll be a strike," Mr. Underwood answered, grimly, while a
quick gleam shot across his face; "but remember one thing," he added, as
he turned to leave the room, "no man ever yet got the drop or the first
blow on me!"

Matters continued about the same at the camp. On Friday favorable
reports concerning the new boarding-house began to be circulated,
brought the preceding evening by miners from another camp. Some of the
men looked sullen and defiant, others only painfully self-conscious, in
the presence of Darrell and the superintendent, but it was evident that
the crisis was approaching.

Late Friday night a horseman dismounted silently before the door of the
office building and Mr. Underwood walked quietly into Darrell's room.

"How's the new hotel? Overrun with boarders?" he asked, as he seated
himself, paying little attention to Darrell's exclamation of surprise.

"Chapman's men--about fifty in all--are the only ones there at present."

"Chapman!" ejaculated Mr. Underwood; "what is Chapman doing? He agreed
to stand in with the rest of us on this thing!"

"He told Hathaway this morning he was only doing it for experiment. The
boarding-house is located near his claims, you know, and he has
comparatively few men. So he said he didn't mind trying it for a month
or so."

"Confound him! I'll make it the dearest experiment ever he tried," said
Mr. Underwood, wrathfully; "he was in our office the other day trying to
negotiate a loan for twenty-five thousand dollars that he said he had
got to have within ten days or go to the wall. I'll see that he doesn't
get it anywhere about here unless he stands by his word with us."

After further conversation Mr. Underwood went out, saying he had a
little business about the camp to attend to. He returned in the course
of an hour, and Darrell heard him holding a long consultation with
Hathaway before he retired for the night.

The following morning the mill men of the camp, on going to their work,
were astonished to find the mill closed and silent, while fastened on
the great doors was a large placard which read as follows:

     NOTICE.

     The entire mining and milling plant of Camp Bird is closed down for
     an indefinite period. All employees are requested to call at the
     superintendent's office and receive their wages up to and including
     Saturday, the 10th inst.
                                                  D. K. UNDERWOOD.

The miners found the hoist-house and the various shaft-houses closed and
deserted, with notices similar to the above posted on their doors.

Darrell, upon going to breakfast, learned that Mr. Underwood and the
superintendent had breakfasted at an early hour. A little later, on his
way to the mill, he observed groups of men here and there, some
standing, some moving in the direction of the office, but gave the
matter no particular thought until he reached the mill and was himself
confronted by the placard. As he read the notice and recalled the groups
of idlers, certain remarks made by Mr. Underwood came to his mind, and
he seemed struck by the humorous side of the situation.

"The old gentleman seems to have got the 'drop' on them, all right!" he
said to himself, as, with an amused smile, he walked past the mill and
out in the direction of the hoist. The ore-bins were closed and locked,
the tram-cars stood empty on their tracks, the hoisting engine was
still, the hoist-house and shaft-houses deserted. After the ceaseless
noise and activity to which he had become accustomed at the camp the
silence seemed oppressive, and he turned and retraced his steps to the
office.

A crowd of men was gathered outside the office building. In single file
they passed into the office to the superintendent's window, received
their money silently, in almost every instance without comment or
question, and passed out again. Once outside, however, there they
remained, their number constantly augmented by new arrivals, for the men
on the night shift had been aroused by their comrades and were now
streaming down from the bunk-houses. A few laughed and joked, some
looked sullen, some troubled and anxious, but all remained packed about
the building, quiet, undemonstrative, and mute as dumb brutes as to
their reason for staying there. They were all prepared to march boldly
out of the mill and mines on the following Monday, on a strike, in
obedience to orders; even to resort to violence in defence of their
so-called "rights" if so ordered, but Mr. Underwood's sudden move had
disarmed them; there had been no opportunity for a conference with their
leaders, with the result that they acted more in accordance with their
own individual instincts, and the loss of work for which they would have
cared little in the event of a strike was now uppermost in their minds.

They eyed Darrell furtively and curiously, making way for him as he
entered the building, but still they waited. For a few moments Darrell
watched the scene, then he passed through the office into the room
beyond, where he found Mr. Underwood engaged in sorting and filing
papers. The latter looked up with a grim smile:

"Been down to the mill?"

"Oh, yes," Darrell answered, laughing; "I went to work as usual, only to
find the door shut in my face, the same as the rest."

"H'm! What do you think of the 'strike' now?"

"I think you are making them swallow their own medicine, but I don't see
why you need give me a dose of it; I haven't threatened to strike."

Mr. Underwood's eyes twinkled shrewdly as he replied, "You had better go
out there and get your pay along with the rest, and then go to your room
and pack up. You may not be needed at the mill again for the next six
months."

"Will it be as serious as that, do you think?" Darrell inquired.

Before Mr. Underwood could reply the superintendent opened the office
door hastily.

"Mr. Underwood," he said, "will you come out and speak to the men? They
are all waiting outside and I can't drive them away; they say they won't
stir till they've seen you."

With a look of annoyance Mr. Underwood rose and passed out into the
office; Darrell, somewhat interested, followed.

"Well, boys," said Mr. Underwood, as he appeared in the doorway, "what
do you want of me?"

"If you please, sir," said one man, evidently spokesman for the crowd,
and whom Darrell at once recognized as Dan, the engineer,--"if you
please, sir, we would like to know how long this shut-down is going to
last."

"Can't tell," Mr. Underwood replied, shortly; "can't tell anything about
it at present; it's indefinite."

"Well," persisted the man, "there's some of us as thought that mebbe
'twould only be till this 'ere trouble about the meals is settled, one
way or t'other; and there's some as thought mebbe it hadn't nothing to
do with that."

"Well?" said Mr. Underwood, impatiently.

"Well, sir," said Dan, lowering his voice a little and edging nearer Mr.
Underwood, "you know as how the most of us was satisfied with things as
they was, and didn't want no change and wouldn't have made no kick,
only, you see, we had to, and we felt kinder anxious to know whether if
this thing got settled some way and the camp opened up again, whether we
could get back in our old places?"

"Dan," said Mr. Underwood, impressively, and speaking loudly enough for
every man to hear, "there can be no settlement of this question except
to have things go on under precisely the same terms and conditions as
they've always gone; so none of your leaders need come to me for terms,
for they won't get 'em. And as to opening up the mines and mill, I'll
open them up whenever I get ready, not a day sooner or later; and when I
do start up again, if you men have come to your senses by that time and
are ready to come back on the same terms, all right; if not," he paused
an instant, then added with emphasis, "just remember there'll be others,
and plenty of 'em, too."

"Yes, sir; thank ye, sir," Dan answered, somewhat dubiously; then one
and all moved slowly and mechanically away.

Mr. Underwood turned to Darrell. "Get your things together as soon as
you can. I'm going to send down three or four of the teams after dinner,
and they can take your things along. And here's the key to the mill; go
over and pick out whatever you will want in the way of an assaying
outfit, and have that taken down with the rest. There's no need of your
going to the expense of buying an outfit just for temporary use."

By two o'clock scarcely a man remained at the camp. Mr. Underwood and
Darrell were among the last to leave. Two faithful servants of Mr.
Underwood's had arrived an hour or so before, who were to act as
watchmen during the shut-down. Having taken them around the camp and
given them the necessary instructions, Mr. Underwood then gave them the
keys of the various buildings, saying, as he took his departure,--

"There's grub enough in the boarding-house to last you two for some
time, but whenever there's anything needed, let me know. Bring over some
beds from the bunk-house and make yourselves comfortable."

He climbed to a seat on one of the wagons, and, as they started, turned
back to the watchmen for his parting admonition:

"Keep an eye on things, boys! You're both good shots; if you catch
anybody prowling 'round here, day or night, wing him, boys, wing him!"

The teams then rattled noisily down the canyon road, Darrell, with Trix,
bringing up the rear, feeling himself a sort of shuttlecock tossed to
and fro by antagonistic forces in whose conflicts he personally had no
part and no interest. However, he wasted no moments in useless regrets,
but rode along in deep thought, planning for the uninterrupted pursuit
of his studies amid the new and less favorable surroundings. Thus far he
had met with unlooked-for success along the line of his researches and
experiments, and each success but stimulated him to more diligent study.

On their arrival at Ophir, Mr. Underwood gave directions to have the
assaying outfit taken to the rooms in the rear of his own offices, after
which he and Darrell, with the remaining teams, proceeded in the
direction of The Pines. Trix, on finding herself headed for home,
quickened her steps to such a brisk pace that on reaching the long
driveway Darrell was considerably in advance of the others. He had no
sooner emerged from the pines into the open, in full view of the house,
than Duke came bounding down the driveway to meet him, with every
possible demonstration of joyous welcome. His loud barking brought the
ladies to the door just as Darrell, having quickly dismounted and sent
Trix to the stables, was running up the broad stairs to the veranda, the
collie close at his side.

"Just look at Duke!" Kate Underwood exclaimed, shaking hands with
Darrell; "and this is only the second time he has met you! You surely
have won his heart, Mr. Darrell."

"You are the only person outside of Katherine he has ever condescended
to notice," said Mrs. Dean, with a smile.

"I assure you I feel immensely flattered by his friendship," Darrell
replied, caressing the collie; "the more so because I know it to be
genuine."

"He won't so much as look at me," Mrs. Dean added.

"That is because you objected at first to having him here," said Kate;
"he knows it, and he'll not forget it. But, Mr. Darrell, where is papa?"

"He will be here directly," Darrell answered, smiling as he suddenly
recalled the little note within his pocket; "he is returning from the
war-path with the trophies of victory."

Kate laughed and colored slightly. "Your own scalp has not suffered, at
any rate," she said.

"But he has brought me back a captive; here he comes now!"

The wagon loaded with Darrell's belongings was just coming slowly into
view, with Mr. Underwood on the seat beside the driver, the other teams
having been sent to the stables by another route.

Darrell noted the surprise depicted on the faces beside him, and,
turning to Mrs. Dean, who stood next him, he said, in a low tone,--

"I have come back to the old home, mother, for a little while; is there
room for me?"

Mrs. Dean looked at him steadily for an instant, while Kate ran to meet
her father; then she replied, earnestly,--

"There will always be room in the old home for you. I only wish that I
could hope it would always hold you."




_Chapter XIV_

DRIFTING


Early the following week Darrell was established in his new office. The
building containing the offices of the firm of Underwood & Walcott had,
as Mr. Underwood informed Darrell, been formerly occupied by one of the
leading banks of Ophir, and was situated on the corner of two of its
principal streets. Of the three handsome private offices in the rear Mr.
Underwood occupied the one immediately adjoining the general offices;
the next, separated from the first by a narrow entrance way, had been
appropriated by Mr. Walcott, while the third, communicating with the
second and opening directly upon the street, was now fitted up for
Darrell's occupancy. The carpets and much of the original furnishing of
the rooms still remained, but in the preparation of Darrell's room Kate
Underwood and her aunt made numerous trips in their carriage between the
offices and The Pines, with the result that when Darrell took possession
many changes had been effected. Heavy curtains separated that portion of
the room in which the laboratory work was to be done from that to be
used as a study, and to the latter there had been added a rug or two, a
bookcase in which Darrell could arrange his small library of scientific
works, a cabinet of mineralogical specimens, and a pair of paintings
intended to conceal some of Time's ravages on the once finely decorated
walls, while palms and blooming plants transformed the large plate-glass
windows into bowers of fragrance and beauty, at the same time forming a
screen from the too inquisitive eyes of passers-by.

Just as Darrell was completing the arrangement of his effects, Mr.
Underwood and his partner sauntered into the room from their apartments.
Within a few feet of the door Mr. Underwood came to a stop, his hands
deep in his trousers pockets, his square chin thrust aggressively
forward, while, with a face unreadable as granite, his keen eyes scanned
every detail in the room. Mr. Walcott, on the contrary, made the entire
circuit of the room, his hands carelessly clasped behind him, his head
thrown well back, his every step characterized by a graceful, undulatory
motion, like the movements of the feline tribe.

"H'm!" was Mr. Underwood's sole comment when he had finished his survey
of the room.

Mr. Walcott turned towards his partner with a smile. "Mr. Darrell is
evidently a prime favorite with the ladies," he remarked, pleasantly.

"Well, they don't want to try any of their prime favorite business on
me," retorted Mr. Underwood, as he slowly turned and left the room.

Both young men laughed, and Walcott, with an easy, nonchalant air,
seated himself near Darrell.

"I find the old gentleman has a keen sense of humor," he said, still
smiling; "but some of his jokes are inclined to be a little ponderous at
times."

"His humor generally lies along the lines of sarcasm," Darrell replied.

"Ah, something of a cynic, is he?"

"No," said Darrell; "he has too kind a heart to be cynical, but he is
very fond of concealing it by sarcasm and brusqueness."

"He is quite original and unique in his way. I find him really a much
more agreeable man than I anticipated. You have very pleasant quarters
here, Mr. Darrell. I should judge you intended this as a sort of study
as well as an office."

"I do intend it so. Probably for a while I shall do more studying than
anything else, as it may be some time before I get any assaying."

"I think we can probably throw quite a bit of work your way, as we
frequently have inquiries from some of our clients wanting something in
that line."

"Walcott," said Mr. Underwood, re-entering suddenly, "Chapman is out
there; go and meet him. You can conduct negotiations with him on the
terms we agreed upon, but I don't care to figure in the deal. If he asks
for me, tell him I'm out."

"I see; as the ladies say, you're 'not at home,'" said Walcott, smiling,
as he sprang quickly to his feet. "Well, Mr. Darrell," he continued, "I
consider myself fortunate in having you for so near a neighbor, and I
trust that we shall prove good friends and our relations mutually
agreeable."

Darrell's dark, penetrating eyes looked squarely into the half-closed,
smiling ones, which met his glance for an instant, then wavered and
dropped.

"I know of no reason why we should not be friends," he replied, quietly,
knowing he could say that much with all candor, yet feeling that
friendship between them was an utter impossibility, and that of this
Walcott was as conscious as was he himself.

"Well, my boy," said Mr. Underwood, seating himself before Darrell's
desk, "I guess 'twas a good thing you took the old man's advice for
once. I don't know where you would find better quarters than these."

Darrell smiled. "As to following your advice, Mr. Underwood, you didn't
even give me a chance. You suggested my taking one of these rooms, and
then gave orders on your own responsibility for my paraphernalia to be
deposited here, and there was nothing left for me to do but to settle
down. However," he added, laying some money on the desk before Mr.
Underwood, "I have no complaint to make. Just kindly receipt for that."

"Receipt for this! What do you mean? What is it, anyway?" exclaimed Mr.
Underwood, in a bewildered tone.

"It is the month's rent in advance, according to your custom."

"Rent!" Mr. Underwood ejaculated, now thoroughly angry; "what do I want
of rent from you? Can't you let me be a friend to you? Time and time
again I've tried to help you and you wouldn't have it. Now I'll give you
warning, young man, that one of these days you'll go a little too far in
this thing, and then you'll have to look somewhere else for friends, for
when I'm done with a man, I'm done with him forever!"

"Mr. Underwood," said Darrell, with dignity, "you are yourself going too
far at this moment. You know I do not refuse favors from you personally.
Do I not consider your home mine? Have I ever offered you compensation
for anything that you or your sister have done for me? But this is a
different affair altogether."

"Different! I'd like to know wherein."

"Mr. Underwood, if, in addition to your other kindnesses, you personally
offered me the use of this room gratis, I might accept it; but I will
accept no favors from the firm of Underwood & Walcott."

"Humph! I don't see what difference that need make!" Mr. Underwood
retorted.

He sat silently studying Darrell for a few moments, but the latter's
face was as unreadable as his own.

"What have you got against that fellow?" he asked at length, curiously.

"I have nothing whatever against him, Mr. Underwood."

"But you're not friendly to him."

Darrell remained silent.

"He is friendly to you," continued Mr. Underwood; "he has talked with me
considerably about you and takes quite an interest in you and in your
success."

"Possibly," Darrell answered, dryly; "but you will oblige me by not
talking of me to him. I have nothing against Mr. Walcott; I am neither
friendly nor unfriendly to him, but he is a man to whom I do not wish to
be under any obligations whatsoever."

In vain Mr. Underwood argued; Darrell remained obdurate, and when he
left the office a little later he carried with him the receipt of
Underwood & Walcott for office rent.

Darrell's reputation as an expert which he had already established at
the mining camp soon reached Ophir, with the result that he was not long
without work in the new office. For a time he devoted his leisure hours
to unremitting study. The brief but intense summer season of the high
altitudes was now well advanced, however, and in its stifling heat, amid
the noise of the busy little city, and constantly subjected to
interruptions, his scientific studies and researches lost half their
charm.

And in proportion as they lost their power to interest him the home on
the mountain-side, beyond reach of the city's heat and dust and clamor,
drew him with increasing and irresistible force. Never before had it
seemed to him so attractive, so beautiful, so homelike as now. He did
not stop to ask himself wherein its new charm consisted or to analyze
the sense of relief and gladness with which he turned his face homeward
when the day's work was ended. He only felt vaguely that the silent,
undemonstrative love which the old place had so long held for him had
suddenly found expression. It smiled to him from the flowers nodding
gayly to him as he passed; it echoed in the tinkling music of the
fountains; the murmuring pines whispered it to him as their fragrant
breath fanned his cheek; but more than all he read it in the brown eyes
which grew luminous with welcome at his approach and heard it in the
low, sweet voice whose wonderful modulations were themselves more
eloquent than words. And with this interpretation of the strange, new
joy day by day permeating his whole life, he went his way in deep
content.

And to Kate Underwood this summer seemed the brightest and the fairest
of all the summers of her young life; why, she could not have told,
except that the skies were bluer, the sunlight more golden, and the
birds sang more joyously than ever before.

In a mining town like Ophir there was comparatively little society for
her, so that most of her evenings were spent at home, and she and
Darrell were of necessity thrown much together. Sometimes he joined her
in a game of tennis, a ride or drive or a short mountain ramble;
sometimes he sat on the veranda with the elder couple, listening while
she played and sang; but more often their voices blended, while the
wild, plaintive notes of the violin rose and fell on the evening air
accompanied by the piano or by the guitar or mandolin. Together they
watched the sunsets or walked up and down the mountain terrace in the
moonlight, enjoying to the full the beauty around them, neither as yet
dreaming that,--more than their joy in the bloom and beauty and
fragrance, in the music of the fountains or the murmuring voices of the
pines, in the sunset's glory, or the moonlight's mystical
radiance,--above all, deeper than all, pervading all, was their joy in
each other. Hers was a nature essentially childlike; his very infirmity
rendered him in experience less than a child; and so, devoid of worldly
wisdom,--like Earth's first pair of lovers, without knowledge of good or
evil,--all unconsciously they entered their Eden.

One sultry Sunday afternoon they sat within the vine-clad veranda, the
strains of the violin and guitar blending on the languorous, perfumed
air. As the last notes died away Kate exclaimed,--

"I never had any one accompany me who played with so much expression.
You give me an altogether different conception of a piece of music; you
seem to make it full of new meaning."

"And why not?" Darrell inquired. "Music is a language of itself, capable
of infinitely more expression than our spoken language."

"Who is speaking, then, when you play as you did just now--the soul of
the musician or your own?"

"The musician's; I am only the interpreter. The more perfect the harmony
or sympathy between his soul, as expressed in the music, and mine, the
truer will be the rendering I give. A fine elocutionist will reveal the
beauties of a classic poem to hundreds who, of themselves, might never
have understood it; but the poem is not his, he is only the poet's
interpreter."

"If you call that piece of music which you have just rendered only an
interpretation," Kate answered, in a low tone, "I only wish that I could
for once hear your own soul speaking through the violin!"

Darrell smiled. "Do you really wish it?" he asked, after a pause,
looking into the wistful brown eyes.

"I do."

She was seated in a low hammock, swinging gently to and fro. He sat at a
little distance from her feet, on the topmost of the broad stairs, his
back against one of the large, vine-wreathed columns, Duke stretched
full length beside him.

A slight breeze stirred the flower-scented air and set the pines
whispering for a moment; then all was silent. With eyes half closed,
Darrell raised the violin and, drawing the bow softly across the
strings, began one of his own improvisos, the exquisite, piercing
sweetness of the first notes swelling with an indescribable pathos until
Kate could scarcely restrain a cry of pain. Higher and higher they
soared, until above the clouds they poised lightly for an instant, then
descended in a flood of liquid harmonies which alternately rose and
fell, sometimes tremulous with hope, sometimes moaning in low undertones
of grief, never despairing, but always with the same heart-rending
pathos, always voicing the same unutterable longing.

Unmindful of his surroundings, his whole soul absorbed in the music,
Darrell played on, till, as the strains sank to a minor undertone, he
heard a stifled sob, followed by a low whine from Duke. He glanced
towards Kate, and the music ceased instantly. Unobserved by him she had
left the hammock and was seated opposite himself, listening as though
entranced, her lips quivering, her eyes shining with unshed tears, while
Duke, alarmed by what he considered signs of evident distress, looked
anxiously from her to Darrell as though entreating his help.

"Why, my dear child, what is the matter?" Darrell exclaimed, moving
quickly to her side.

"Oh," she cried, piteously, "how could you stop so suddenly! It was
like snapping a beautiful golden thread!" And burying her face in her
hands, her whole frame shook with sobs.

Darrell, somewhat alarmed himself, laid his hand on her shoulder in an
attempt to soothe her. In a moment she raised her head, the tear-drops
still glistening on her cheeks and her long golden lashes.

"It was childish in me to give way like that," she said, with a smile
that reminded Darrell of the sun shining through a summer shower; "but
oh, that music! It was the saddest and the sweetest I ever heard! It was
breaking my heart, and yet I could have listened to it forever!"

"It was my fault," said Darrell, regretfully; "I should not have played
so long, but I always forget myself when playing that way."

Kate's face grew suddenly grave and serious. "Mr. Darrell," she said,
hesitatingly, "I have thought very often about the sad side of your
life--since your illness, you know; but I never realized till now the
terrible loneliness of it all."

She paused as though uncertain how to proceed. Darrell's face had in
turn become grave.

"Did the violin tell you that?" he asked, gently.

She nodded silently.

"Yes, it has been lonely, inexpressibly so," he said, unconsciously
using the past tense; "but I had no right to cause you this suffering by
inflicting my loneliness upon you."

"Do not say that," she replied, quickly; "I am glad that you told
me,--in the way you did; glad not only that I understand you better and
can better sympathize with you, but also because I believe you can
understand me as no one else has; for one reason why the music affected
me so much was that it seemed the expression of my own feelings, of my
hunger for sympathy all these years."

"Have there been shadows in your life, then, too? It looked to be all
sunshine," Darrell said, his face growing tender as he saw the
tear-drops falling.

"Yes, it would seem so, with this beautiful home and all that papa does
for me, and sometimes I'm afraid I'm ungrateful. But oh, Mr. Darrell, if
you could have known my mother, you would understand! She was so
different from papa and auntie, and she loved me so! And it seems as
though since she died I've had nobody to love me. I suppose papa does in
a fashion, but he is too busy to show it, or else he doesn't know how;
and Aunt Marcia! well, you know she's good as she can be, but if she
loved you, you would never know it. I've wondered sometimes if poor
mamma didn't die just for want of love; it has seemed lots of times as
though I would!"

"Poor little girl!" said Darrell, pityingly. He understood now the
wistful, appealing look of the brown eyes. He intended to say something
expressive of sympathy, but the right words would not come. He could
think of nothing that did not sound stilted and formal. Almost
unconsciously he laid his hand with a tender caress on the slender
little white hand lying near him, much as he would have laid it on a
wounded bird; and just as unconsciously, the little hand nestled
contentedly, like a bird, within his clasp.

A few days later Darrell heard from Walcott the story of Harry
Whitcomb's love for his cousin. It had been reported, Walcott said, in
low tones, as though imparting a secret, that young Whitcomb was
hopelessly in love with Miss Underwood, but that she seemed rather
indifferent to his attentions. It was thought, however, that the old
gentleman had favored the match, as he had given his nephew an interest
in his mining business, and had the latter lived and proved himself a
good financier, it was believed that Mr. Underwood would in time have
bestowed his daughter upon him.

Darrell listened silently. Of young Whitcomb, of his death, and of his
own part in that sad affair he had often heard, but no mention of
anything of this nature. He sat lost in thought.

"Of course, you know how sadly the romance ended," Walcott continued,
wondering somewhat at Darrell's silence. "I have understood that you
were a witness of young Whitcomb's tragic death."

"I know from hearsay, that is all," Darrell replied, quietly; "I have
heard the story a number of times."

Walcott expressed great surprise. "Pardon me, Mr. Darrell, for referring
to the matter. I had heard something regarding the peculiar nature of
your malady, but I had no idea it was so marked as that. Is it possible
that you have no recollection of that affair?"

"None whatever," Darrell answered, briefly, as though he did not care to
discuss the matter.

"How strange! One would naturally have supposed that anything so
terrible, so shocking to the sensibilities, would have left an
impression on your mind never to have been effaced! But I fear the
subject is unpleasant to you, Mr. Darrell; pardon me for having alluded
to it."

The conversation turned, but Darrell could not banish the subject from
his thoughts. Kate had often spoken to him of her cousin, but never as a
lover. He recalled his portrait at The Pines; the frank, boyish face
with its winning smile--a bonnie lover surely! Had she, or had she not,
he wondered, learned to reciprocate his love before the tragic ending
came? And if not, did she now regret it?

He watched her that evening, fearing to broach a subject so delicate,
but pondering long and deeply, till at last she rallied him on his
unusual seriousness, and he told her what he had heard.

"Yes," she said, in reply; "Harry loved me, or thought he did; though he
was like the others--he did not understand me any better than they. But
he had always been just like a brother to me, and I could never have
loved him in any other way, and I told him so. Papa said I would learn
in time, and I think perhaps he would have insisted upon it if Harry had
lived. I was sorry I couldn't care for him as he wished; he thought I
would after a while, but I never could, for I think that kind of love is
far different from all others; don't you, Mr. Darrell?"

And Darrell, looking from the mountain-side where they were standing out
into the deep blue spaces where the stars, one by one, were gliding into
sight, answered, reverently,--

"As far above all others 'as the heaven is high above the earth.'"

To him at that instant love--the love that should exist between two who,
out of earth's millions, have chosen each the other--seemed something as
yet remote; a sacred temple whose golden dome, like some mystic shrine,
gleamed from afar, but into which he might some day enter; unaware that
he already stood within its outer court.




_Chapter XV_

THE AWAKENING


As Darrell was returning home one evening, some ten days later, he heard
Kate's rippling laughter and sounds of unusual merriment, and, on coming
out into view of the house, beheld her engaged in executing a waltz on
the veranda, with Duke as a partner. The latter, in his efforts to
oblige his young mistress and at the same time preserve his own dignity,
presented so ludicrous a spectacle that Darrell was unable to restrain
his risibility. Hearing his peals of laughter and finding herself
discovered, Kate rather hastily released her partner, and the collie,
glad to be once more permitted the use of four feet, bounded down the
steps to give Darrell his customary welcome, his mistress following
slowly with somewhat heightened color.

Darrell at once apologized for his hilarity, pleading as an excuse
Duke's comical appearance.

"We both must have made a ridiculous appearance," she replied, "but as
Duke seems to have forgiven you, I suppose I must, and I think I had
better explain such undignified conduct on my part. Auntie has just told
me that she is going to give a grand reception for me two weeks from
to-day, or, really, two of them, for there is to be an afternoon
reception from three until six for her acquaintances, with a few young
ladies to assist me in receiving; and then, in the evening, I am to have
a reception of my own. We are going to send nearly two hundred
invitations to Galena, besides our friends here. Papa is going to have
the ball-room on the top floor fitted up for the occasion, and we are
to have an orchestra from Galena, and altogether it will be quite 'the
event of the season.' Now do you wonder," she added, archly, "that I
seized hold of the first object that came in my way and started out for
a waltz?"

"Not in the least," Darrell answered, his dark eyes full of merriment.
"I only wish I had been fortunate enough to have arrived a little
earlier."

A mischievous response to his challenge sparkled in Kate's eyes for a
moment, but she only replied, demurely,--

"You shall have your opportunity later."

"When?"

"Two weeks from to-night."

"Ah! am I to be honored with an invitation?"

"Most assuredly you will be invited," Kate replied, quietly; then added,
shyly, "and I myself invite you personally, here and now, and that is
honoring you as no other guest of mine will be honored."

"Thank you," he replied, gently, with one of his tender smiles; "I
accept the personal invitation for your sake."

She was standing on the topmost stair, slightly above him, one hand
toying with a spray of blossoms depending from the vines above her head.
With a swift movement Darrell caught the little hand and was in the act
of carrying it to his lips, when it suddenly slipped from his grasp and
its owner as quickly turned and disappeared.

Darrell seated himself with a curious expression. It was not the first
time Kate had eluded him thus within the last few days. He had missed of
late certain pleasant little familiarities and light, tender caresses,
to which he had become accustomed, and he began to wonder at this
change in his child companion, as he regarded her.

"What has come over the child?" he soliloquized; "two weeks ago if I had
given her a challenge for a waltz she would have taken me up, but lately
she is as demure as a little nun! We will have to give it up, won't we,
Duke, old boy?" he continued, addressing the collie, whose intelligent
eyes were fastened on his face with a shrewd expression, as though,
aware of the trend of Darrell's thoughts, he, too, considered his
beloved young mistress rather incomprehensible.

The ensuing days were so crowded with preparations for the coming event
and with such constant demands upon Kate's time that Darrell seldom saw
her except at meals, and opportunities for anything like their
accustomed pleasant interchange of confidence were few and far between.
On those rare occasions, however, when he succeeded in meeting her
alone, Darrell could not but be impressed by the subtle and to him
inexplicable change in her manner. She seemed in some way so remotely
removed from the young girl who, but a few days before, in response to
the violin's tale, had confided to him the loneliness of her own life. A
shy, sweet, but impenetrable reserve seemed to have replaced the
childlike familiarity. Her eyes still brightened with welcome at his
approach, but their light was quickly veiled beneath drooping lids, and
through the cadences of her low tones he caught at times the vibration
of a new chord, to whose meaning his ear was as yet unattuned.

He did not know, nor did any other, that within that short time she had
learned her own heart's secret. Child that she was, she had met Love
face to face, and in that one swift, burning glance of recognition the
womanhood within her had expanded as the bud expands, bursting its
imprisoning calyx under the ardent glance of the sun. But Darrell,
seeing only the effect and knowing nothing of the cause, was vaguely
troubled.

On the day of the reception both Mr. Underwood and Darrell lunched and
dined down town, returning together to The Pines in the interim between
the afternoon and evening entertainments. As Darrell sprang from the
carriage and ran up the stairs the servants were already turning on the
lights temporarily suspended within the veranda and throughout the
grounds, so that the place seemed transformed into a bit of fairyland.
He heard chatter and laughter, and caught glimpses of young
ladies--special guests from out of town--flitting from room to room, but
Kate was nowhere to be seen.

Going to his room, he quickly donned an evening suit, not omitting a
dainty boutonnière awaiting him on his dressing-case, and betook himself
to the libraries across the hall, where, by previous arrangement, Kate
was to call for him when it was time to go downstairs.

From below came the ceaseless hum of conversation, the constant ripple
of laughter, mingled with bits of song, and the occasional strains of a
waltz. Reading was out of the question. Sinking into the depths of a
large arm-chair, Darrell was soon lost in dreamy reverie, from which he
was roused by a slight sound.

Looking up, he saw framed in the arched doorway between the two rooms a
vision, like and yet so unlike the maiden for whom he waited and who had
occupied his thoughts but a moment before that he gazed in silent
astonishment, uncertain whether it were a reality or part of his dreams.
For a moment the silence was unbroken; then,--

"How do you like my gown?" said the Vision, demurely.

Darrell sprang to his feet and approached slowly, a new consciousness
dawning in his soul, a new light in his eyes. Of the style or texture of
her gown, a filmy, gleaming mass of white, he knew absolutely nothing;
he only knew that its clinging softness revealed in new beauty the
rounded outlines of her form; that its snowy sheen set off the exquisite
moulding of her neck and arms; that its long, shimmering folds
accentuated the height and grace of her slender figure; but a knowledge
had come to him in that moment like a revelation, stunning, bewildering
him, thrilling his whole being, irradiating every lineament of his face.

"I know very little about ladies' dress," he said apologetically, "and I
fear I may express myself rather bunglingly, but to me the chief beauty
of your gown consists in the fact that it reveals and enhances the
beauty of the wearer; in that sense, I consider it very beautiful."

"Thank you," Kate replied, with a low, sweeping courtesy to conceal the
blushes which she felt mantling her cheeks, not so much at his words as
at what she read in his eyes; "that is the most delicate compliment I
ever heard. I know I shall not receive another so delicious this whole
evening, and to think of prefacing it with an apology!"

"I am glad to hear that voice," said Darrell, possessing himself of one
little gloved hand and surveying his companion critically, from the
charmingly coiffed head to the dainty white slipper peeping from beneath
her skirt; "the voice and the eyes seem about all that is left of the
little girl I had known and loved."

She regarded him silently, with a gracious little smile, but with
deepening color and quickening pulse.

He continued: "She has seemed different of late, somehow; she has eluded
me so often I have felt as though she were in some way slipping away
from me, and now I fear I have lost her altogether. How is it?"

Darrell gently raised the sweet face so that he looked into the clear
depths of the brown eyes.

"Tell me, Kathie dear, has she drifted away from me?"

For an instant the eyes were hidden under the curling lashes; then they
lifted as she replied, with an enigmatical smile,--

"Not so far but that you may follow, if you choose."

Darrell bowed his head and his lips touched the golden-brown hair.

"Sweetheart," he said, in low tones, scarcely above a whisper, "I
follow; if I overtake her, what then? Will I find her the same as in the
past?"

Her heart was beating wildly with a new, strange joy; she longed to get
away by herself and taste its sweetness to the full.

"The same, and yet not the same," she answered, slowly; then, before he
could say more, she added, lightly, as a wave of laughter was borne
upward from the parlors.

"But I came to see if you were ready to go downstairs; ought we not to
join the others?"

"As you please," he replied, stooping to pick up the programme she had
dropped; "are the guests arriving yet?"

"No; it is still early, but I want to introduce you to my friends. Oh,
yes, my programme; thanks! That reminds me, I am going to ask you to put
your name down for two or three waltzes; you know," she added, smiling,
"I promised you two weeks ago some waltzes for this evening, so take
your choice."

For an instant Darrell hesitated, and the old troubled look returned to
his face.

"You are very kind," he said, slowly, "and I appreciate the honor; but
it has just occurred to me that really I am not at all certain regarding
my proficiency in that line."

Kate understood his dilemma. They had reached the hall; some one was at
the piano below and the strains of a dreamy waltz floated through the
rooms.

"I haven't a doubt of your proficiency myself," she replied, with a
confident smile, "but if you would like a test, here is a good
opportunity," and she glanced up and down the vacant but brightly
lighted corridor. Darrell needed no second hint, and almost before she
was aware they were gliding over the floor.

To Kate, intoxicated with her new-found joy, it seemed as though she
were borne along on the waves of the music without effort or volition of
her own. She dared not trust herself to speak. Once or twice she raised
her eyes to meet the dark ones whose gaze she felt upon her face, but
the love-light shining in their depths overpowered her glance and she
turned her eyes away. She knew that he had seen and recognized the
woman, and that as such--and not as a child--he loved her, and for the
present this knowledge was happiness enough.

And Darrell was silent, still bewildered by the twofold revelation which
had so suddenly come to him; the revelation of the lovely womanhood at
his side, to which he had, until now, been blind, and of the love within
his own heart, of which, till now, he had been unconscious.

Before they had completed two turns up and down the corridor the music
ceased as suddenly as it had begun.

"Oh, that was heavenly! It seemed like a dream!" Kate exclaimed, with a
sigh.

"It seemed a very blessed bit of reality to me," Darrell laughed in
return, drawing her arm within his own as they proceeded towards the
stairs.

"You are a superb dancer; now you certainly can have no scruples about
claiming some waltzes," Kate replied, withdrawing her arm and again
placing her programme in his hands.

As they paused at the head of the stairs while Darrell complied with her
request, a chorus of voices was heard in the hall below.

"Kate, are you never coming?" some one called, and a sprightly brunette
appeared for an instant on the first landing, but vanished quickly at
sight of Darrell.

"Girls!" they heard her exclaim to the merry group below; "would you
believe it? She is taking a base advantage of us; she has discovered
what we did not suppose existed in this house--a young man--and is
getting her programme filled in advance!"

Cries of "Oh, Kate, that's not fair!" followed. Kate leaned laughingly
over the balustrade.

"He's an angel of a dancer, girls," she called, "but I'll promise not to
monopolize him!"

Darrell returned the programme, saying, as they passed down the stairs
together,--

"I didn't want to appear selfish, so I only selected three, but give me
more if you can, later."

Kate smiled. "I think," she replied, "you will speedily find yourself in
such demand that I will consider myself fortunate to have secured those
three; but," she added shyly, as her eyes met his, "my first waltz was
with you, and that was just as I intended it should be!"

Through the hours which followed so swiftly Darrell was in a sort of
waking dream, a state of superlative happiness, unmarred as yet by
phantoms from the shrouded past or misgivings as to the dim, uncertain
future; past and future were for the time alike forgotten. One image
dominated his mind,--the form and face of the fair young hostess moving
among her guests as a queen amid her court, carrying her daintily poised
head as though conscious of the twofold royal crown of womanhood and
woman's love. One thought surged continuously through and through his
brain,--that she was his, his by the sovereign right of love. Whatever
courtesy he showed to others was for her sake, because they were her
guests, her friends, and when unengaged he stationed himself in some
quiet corner or dimly lighted alcove where, unobserved, he could watch
her movements with their rhythmic grace or catch the music of her voice,
the sight or sound thrilling him with joy so exquisite as to be akin to
pain. The oft-repeated compliments of the crowd about him seemed to him
empty, trite, meaningless; what could they know of her real beauty
compared with himself who saw her through Love's eyes!

As he stood thus alone in a deep bay-window, shaded by giant palms, some
one paused beside him.

"Our little débutante has surpassed herself to-night; she is fairest of
the fair!"

Darrell turned to see at his side Walcott, faultlessly attired, elegant,
nonchalant; a half-smile playing about his lips as through half-closed
eyes he watched the dancers. Instantly all the antagonism in Darrell's
nature rose against the man; strive as he might, he was powerless to
subdue it. There was no trace of it in his voice, however, as he
answered, quietly,--

"Miss Underwood certainly looks very beautiful to-night."

"She has matured marvellously of late," continued the other, in low,
pleasant tones; "her development within the past few weeks has been
remarkable. But that is to be expected in women of her style, and this
is but the beginning. Mark my words, Mr. Darrell," Walcott faced his
auditor with a smile, "Miss Underwood's beauty to-night is but the pale
shining of a taper beside one of those lights yonder, compared with what
it will be a few years hence; are you aware of that?"

"It had not occurred to me," Darrell replied, with studied calmness, for
the conversation was becoming distasteful to him.

"Look at her now!" said Walcott, bowing and smiling as Kate floated past
them, but regarding her with a scrutiny that aroused Darrell's quick
resentment; "very fair, very lovely, I admit, but a trifle too slender;
a little too colorless, too neutral, as it were! A few years will change
all that. You will see her a woman of magnificent proportions and with
the cold, neutral tints replaced by warmth and color. I have made a
study of women, and I know that class well. Five or ten years from now
she will be simply superb, and at the age when ordinary women lose their
power to charm she will only be in the zenith of her beauty."

The look and tone accompanying the words filled Darrell with indignation
and disgust.

"You will have to excuse me," he said, coldly; "you seem, as you say, to
have made a study of women from your own standpoint, but our standards
of beauty differ so radically that further discussion of the subject is
useless."

"Ah, well, every man according to his taste, of course," Walcott
remarked, indifferently, and, turning lightly, he walked away, a faint
gleam of amusement lighting his dark features.

Half an hour later, as Darrell glided over the floor with Kate, some
irresistible force drew his glance towards the bay-window where within
the shadow of the palms Walcott was now standing alone, suave as ever.
Their eyes met for an instant only, and Walcott smiled. The dance went
on, but the smile, like a poisoned shaft, entered Darrell's soul and
rankled there.

Both Darrell and Walcott were marked men that night and attracted
universal attention and comment. Darrell's pale, intellectual face,
penetrating eyes, and dark hair already streaked with gray would have
attracted attention anywhere, as would also Walcott with his olive skin,
his cynical smile, and graceful, sinuous movement. In addition,
Darrell's peculiar mental condition and the fact that his identity was
enveloped in a degree of mystery rendered him doubly interesting. In the
case of each this was his introduction to the social life of Ophir. Each
had been a resident of the town, the one as a student and recluse, the
other as a business man, but each was a stranger to the stratum known as
society. Each held himself aloof that evening from the throng: the one,
through natural reserve, courteous but indifferent to the passing crowd;
the other alert, watchful, studying the crowd; weighing, gauging this
new element, speculating whether or not it were worth his while to court
its favor, whether or not he could make of it an ally for his own future
advantage.

Soon after his arrival Walcott had begged of Kate Underwood the honor of
a waltz, but her programme being then nearly filled she could only give
him one well towards the end. As he intended to render himself
conspicuous by dancing only once, and then with the belle of the
evening, it was at quite a late hour when he first made his appearance
on the floor. Kate was on his arm, and at that instant his criticism,
made earlier in the evening, that she was too colorless, certainly could
not have applied.

As he led her out upon the floor he bent his gaze upon her with a look
which brought the color swiftly to her face in crimson waves that
flooded the full, snow-white throat and, surging upward, reached even to
the blue-veined temples. Instinctively she shrank from him with a
sensation almost of fear, but something in his gaze held her as though
spell-bound. She looked into his eyes like one fascinated, scarcely
knowing what he said or what reply she made. The waltz began, and as
their fingers touched Kate's nerves tingled as though from an electric
shock. She shivered slightly, then, angry with herself, used every
exertion to overcome the strange spell. To a great extent she succeeded,
but she felt benumbed, as though moving in a dream or in obedience to
some will stronger than her own, while her temples throbbed painfully
and her respiration grew hurried and difficult. She grew dizzy, but
pride came to her rescue, and, except for the color which now ran riot
in her cheeks and a slight tremor through her frame, there was no hint
of her agitation. Her partner was all that could be desired, guiding her
through the circling crowds, and supporting her in the swift turns with
the utmost grace and courtesy, but it was a relief when it was over. At
her request, Walcott escorted her to a seat near her aunt, then
smilingly withdrew with much inward self-congratulation.

At that moment Darrell, seeing Kate unengaged, hastened to her side.

"You look warm and the air here is oppressive," he said, observing her
flushed face and fanning her gently; "shall we go outside for a few
moments?"

"Yes, please; anywhere out of this heat and glare," she answered; "my
temples throb as if they would burst and my face feels as though it were
on fire!"

Darrell hastened to the hall, returning an instant later with a light
wrap which he proceeded to throw about Kate's shoulders.

"You are tired, Katherine," said Mrs. Dean, "more tired than you realize
now; you had better not dance any more to-night."

"I have but two more dances, auntie," the young girl answered, smiling;
"you surely would not wish me to forego those;" adding, in a lower tone,
as she turned towards Darrell, "one of them is your waltz, and I would
not miss that for anything!"

They passed through the hall and out upon a broad balcony. They could
hear the subdued laughter of couples strolling through the brightly
lighted grounds below, while over the distant landscape shone the pale
weird light of the waning moon, just rising in the east. None of the
guests had discovered the balcony opening from the hall on the third
floor, so they had it exclusively to themselves.

As Darrell drew Kate's arm closer within his own he was surprised to
feel her trembling slightly, while the hand lying on his own was cold as
marble.

"My dear child!" he exclaimed; "your hands are cold and you are
trembling! What is the matter--are you cold?"

"No, not cold exactly, only shivery," she answered, with a laugh. "My
head was burning up in there, and I feel sort of hot flashes and then a
creepy, shivery feeling by turns; but I am not cold out here, really,"
she added, earnestly, as Darrell drew her wrap more closely about her.

"Nevertheless, I cannot allow you to stay out here any longer," Darrell
replied, finding his first taste of masculine authority very sweet.

For an instant Kate felt a very feminine desire to put his authority to
the test, but the sense of his protection and his solicitude for her
welfare seemed particularly soothing just then, and so, with only a
saucy little smile, she silently allowed him to lead her into the house.
At his suggestion, however, they did not return to the ball-room, but
passed around through an anteroom, coming out into a small, circular
apartment, dimly lighted and cosily furnished, opening upon one corner
of the ball-room.

"It strikes me," said Darrell, as he drew aside the silken hangings
dividing the two rooms and pushed a low divan before the open space,
"this will be fully as pleasant as the balcony and much safer."

"The very thing!" Kate exclaimed, sinking upon the divan with a sigh of
relief; "we will have a fine view of the dancers and yet be quite
secluded ourselves."

A minuet was already in progress on the floor, and for a few moments
Kate watched the stately, graceful dance, while Darrell, having adjusted
her wrap lightly about her, seated himself beside her and silently
watched her face with deep content.

Gradually the throbbing in her temples subsided, the nervous tremor
ceased, her color became natural, and she felt quite herself again. She
leaned back against the divan and looked with laughing eyes into
Darrell's face.

"Mr. Darrell, do you believe in hypnotism?" she suddenly inquired.

"In hypnotism? Yes; but not in many of those who claim to practise it.
Most of them are mere impostors. But why do you ask?" he continued,
drawing her head down upon his shoulder and looking playfully into her
eyes; "are you trying to hypnotize me?"

Kate laughed merrily and shook her head. "I'm afraid I wouldn't find you
a good subject," she said; then added, slowly, as her face grew serious:

"Do you know, I believe I was hypnotized to-night by that dreadful Mr.
Walcott. He certainly cast a malign spell of some kind over me from the
moment we went on the floor together till he left me."

"Why do you say that?" Darrell asked, quickly; "you know I did not see
you on the floor with him, for Miss Stockton asked me to go with her for
a promenade. We came back just as the waltz had ended and Mr. Walcott
was escorting you to your aunt. I noticed that you seemed greatly
fatigued and excused myself to Miss Stockton and came over at once. What
had happened?"

Kate related what had occurred. "I can't give you any idea of it," she
said, in conclusion; "it seemed unaccountable, but it was simply
dreadful. You know his eyes are nearly always closed in that peculiar
way of his, and really I don't think I had any idea how they looked; but
to-night as he looked at me they were wide open; and, do you know, I
can't describe them, but they looked so soft and melting they were
beautiful, and yet there was something absolutely terrible in their
depths. It seemed some way like looking down into a volcano! And the
worst of it was, they seemed to hold me--I couldn't take my eyes from
his. He was as kind and courteous as could be, I'll admit that, but even
the touch of his fingers made me shiver."

Darrell's face had darkened during Kate's recital, but he controlled his
anger.

"Now, was that due to my own imagination or to some uncanny spell of
his?" Kate insisted.

"To neither wholly, and yet perhaps a little of each," Darrell answered,
lightly, not wishing to alarm her or lead her to attach undue importance
to the occurrence. "I think Mr. Walcott has an abnormal amount of
conceit, and that most of those little mannerisms of his are mainly to
attract attention to himself. He was probably trying to produce some
sort of an impression on your mind, and to that extent he certainly
succeeded, only the impression does not seem to have been as favorable
as he perhaps would have wished. No one but a conceited cad would have
attempted such a thing, and with your supersensitive nature the effect
on you was anything but pleasant, but don't allow yourself to think
about it or be annoyed by it. At the same time I would advise you not to
place yourself in his power or where he could have any advantage of you.
By the way, this is our waltz, is it not?"

"It is," Kate replied, rising and watching Darrell as he removed her
wrap and prepared to escort her to the ball-room. His playful badinage
had not deceived her. As she took his arm she said, in a low tone,--

"You affect to treat this matter rather lightly, but, all the same, you
have warned me against this man. 'Forewarned is forearmed,' you know,
and no man can ever attempt to harm me or mine with impunity!"

Darrell turned quickly in surprise; there was a quality in her tone
wholly unfamiliar.

"But I fear you exaggerate what I intended to convey," he said, hastily;
"I do not know that he would ever deliberately seek to harm you, but he
might render himself obnoxious in some way, as he did to-night."

She shook her head. "I was taken off guard to-night," she said; "but he
had best never attempt anything of the kind a second time!"

They were now waiting for the waltz to begin; she continued, in the same
low tone:

"I have had a western girl's education. When I was a child this place
was little more than a rough mining camp, with plenty of desperate
characters. My father trained me as he would have trained a boy, and,"
she added, significantly, with a bright, proud smile, "I am just as
proficient now as I was then!"

Darrell scarcely heeded the import of her words, so struck was he by the
change in her face, which had suddenly grown wonderfully like her
father's,--stern, impassive, unrelenting. She smiled, and the look
vanished, and for the time he thought no more of it, but as the passing
cloud sometimes reveals features in a landscape unnoticed in the
sunlight, so it had disclosed a phase of character latent, unguessed
even by those who knew her best.

Two hours later the last carriage had gone; the guests from out of town
who were to remain at The Pines for the night had retired, and darkness
and silence had gradually settled over the house. A light still burned
in Mr. Underwood's private room, where he paced back and forth, his
brows knit in deep thought, but his stern face lighted with a smile of
intense satisfaction. Darrell, who had remained below to assist Mrs.
Dean in the performance of a few last duties, having accompanied her in
a final tour of the deserted rooms to make sure that all was safe, bade
her good-night and went upstairs. To his surprise, Kate's library was
still lighted, and through the open door he could see her at her desk
writing.

She looked up on hearing his step, and, as he approached, rose and came
to the door.

She had exchanged her evening gown for a dainty robe de chambre of
white cashmere and lace, and, standing there against the background of
mellow light, her hair coiled low on her neck, while numerous
intractable locks curled about her ears and temples, it was small wonder
that Darrell's eyes bespoke his admiration and love, even if his lips
did not.

"Writing at this time of night!" he exclaimed; "we supposed you asleep
long ago."

"Sh! don't speak so loud," she protested. "You'll have Aunt Marcia up
here! I have nearly finished my writing, so you needn't scold."

Glancing at the large journal lying open on her desk, Darrell asked,
with a quizzical smile,--

"Couldn't that have been postponed for a few hours?"

"Not to-night," she replied, with emphasis; "ordinarily, you know, it
could and would have been postponed, perhaps indefinitely, but not
to-night!"

She glanced shyly into his eyes, and her own fell, as she added, in a
lower tone,--

"To-night has memories so golden I want to preserve them before they
have been dimmed by even one hour's sleep!"

Darrell's face grew marvellously tender; he drew her head down upon his
breast while he caressed the rippling hair with its waves of light and
shade.

"This night will always have golden memories for me, Kathie," he said,
"and neither days nor years can ever dim their lustre; of that I am
sure."

Kate raised her head, drawing herself slightly away from his embrace so
that she could look him in the face.

"'Kathie!'" she repeated, softly; "that is the second time you have
called me by that name to-night. I never heard it before; where did you
get it?"

"Oh, it came to me," he said, smiling; "and somehow it seemed just the
name for you; but I'll not call you so unless you like it."

"I do like it immensely," she replied; "I am tired of 'Kate' and
'Kittie' and Aunt Marcia's terrible 'Katherine;' I am glad you are
original enough to call me by something different, but it sounds so odd;
I wondered if there might have been a 'Kathie' in the past. But," she
added, quickly, "I must not stay here. I just came out to say good-night
to you."

"We had better say good-morning," Darrell laughed, as the clock in the
hall below chimed one of the "wee, sma' hours;" "promise me that you
will go to rest at once, won't you?"

"Very soon," she answered, smiling; then, a sudden impulsiveness
conquering her reserve, she exclaimed, "Do you know, this has been the
happiest night of my whole life. I hardly dare go to sleep for fear I
will wake up and find it all a dream."

For answer Darrell folded her close to his breast, kissing her hair and
brow with passionate tenderness; then suddenly, neither knew just how,
their lips met in long, lingering, rapturous kisses.

"Will that make it seem more real, sweetheart?" he asked, in a low voice
vibrating with emotion.

"Yes, oh yes!" she panted, half frightened by his fervor; "but let me
go; please do!"

He released her, only retaining her hands for an instant, which he bent
and kissed; then bidding her good-night, he hastened down the hall to
his room.

At the door, however, he looked back and saw her still standing where he
had left her. She wafted him a kiss on her finger-tips and disappeared.
Going to her desk, she read with shining eyes and smiling lips the last
lines written in her journal, then dipped her pen as though to write
further, hesitated, and, closing the book, whispered,--

"That is too sacred to intrust even to you, you dear, old journal! I
shall keep it locked in my own breast."

Then, locking her desk and turning off the light, she stole noiselessly
to her room.




_Chapter XVI_

THE AFTERMATH


As Darrell entered his room its dim solitude seemed doubly grateful
after the glare of the crowded rooms he had lately left. His brain
whirled from the unusual excitement. He wanted to be alone with his own
thoughts--alone with this new, overpowering joy, and assure himself of
its reality. He seated himself by an open window till the air had cooled
his brow, and his brain, under the mysterious, soothing influence of the
night, grew less confused; then, partially disrobing, he threw himself
upon his bed to rest, but not to sleep.

Again he lived over the last few weeks at The Pines, comprehending at
last the gracious influence which, entering into his barren, meagre
life, had rendered it so inexpressibly rich and sweet and complete. Ah,
how blind! to have walked day after day hand in hand with Love, not
knowing that he entertained an angel unawares!

And then had followed the revelation, when the scales had fallen from
his eyes before the vision of lovely maiden-womanhood which had suddenly
confronted him. He recalled her as she stood awaiting his tardy
recognition--recalled her every word and look throughout the evening
down to their parting, and again he seemed to hold her in his arms, to
look into her eyes, to feel her head upon his breast, her kisses on his
lips.

But even with the remembrance of those moments, while yet he felt the
pressure of her lips upon his own, pure and cool like the dewy petals
of a rose at sunrise, there came to him the first consciousness of pain
mingled with the rapture, the first dash of bitter in the sweet, as he
recalled the question in her eyes and the half-whispered, "I wondered if
there might have been a 'Kathie' in the past."

The past! How could he for one moment have forgotten that awful shadow
overhanging his life! As it suddenly loomed before him in its hideous
blackness, Darrell started from his pillow in horror, a cold sweat
bursting from every pore. Gradually the terrible significance of it all
dawned upon him,--the realization of what he had done and of what he
must, as best he might, undo. It meant the relinquishment of what was
sweetest and holiest on earth just as it seemed within his grasp; the
renunciation of all that had made life seem worth living! Darrell buried
his face in his hands and groaned aloud. So it was only a mockery, a
dream. He recalled Kate's words: "I hardly dare go to sleep for fear I
will wake up and find it all a dream," and self-reproach and remorse
added their bitterness to his agony. What right had he to bring that
bright young life under the cloud overhanging his own, to wreck her
happiness by contact with his own misfortune! What would it be for her
when she came to know the truth, as she must know it; and how was he to
tell her? In his anguish he groaned,--

"God pity us both and be merciful to her!"

For more than an hour he walked the room; then kneeling by the bed, just
as a pale, silvery streak appeared along the eastern horizon, he
cried,--

"O God, leave me not in darkness; give me some clew to the vanished
past, that I may know whether or not I have the right to this most
precious of all thine earthly gifts!"

And, burying his face, he strove as never before to pierce the darkness
enveloping his brain. Long he knelt there, his hands clinching the
bedclothes convulsively, even the muscles of his body tense and rigid
under the terrible mental strain he was undergoing, while at times his
powerful frame shook with agony.

The silvery radiance crept upward over the deep blue dome; the stars
dwindled to glimmering points of light, then faded one by one; a roseate
flush tinged the eastern sky, growing and deepening, and the first
golden rays were shooting upward from a sea of crimson flame as Darrell
rose from his knees. He walked to the window, but even the sunlight
seemed to mock him--there was no light for him, no rift in the cloud
darkening his path, and with a heavy sigh he turned away. The struggle
was not yet over; this was to be a day of battle with himself, and he
nerved himself for the coming ordeal.

After a cold bath he dressed and descended to the breakfast-room. It was
still early, but Mr. Underwood was already at the table and Mrs. Dean
entered a moment later from the kitchen, where she had been giving
directions for breakfast for Kate and her guests. Both were shocked at
Darrell's haggard face and heavy eyes, but by a forced cheerfulness he
succeeded in diverting the scrutiny of the one and the anxious
solicitude of the other. Mr. Underwood returned to his paper and his
sister and Darrell had the conversation to themselves.

"Last night's dissipation proved too much for me," Darrell said,
playfully, in reply to some protest of Mrs. Dean's regarding his light
appetite.

"You don't look fit to go down town!" she exclaimed; "you had better
stay at home and help Katherine entertain her guests. I noticed you
seemed to be very popular with them last night."

"I'm afraid I would prove a sorry entertainer," Darrell answered,
lightly, as he rose from the table, "so you will kindly excuse me to
Miss Underwood and her friends."

"Aren't you going to wait and ride down?" Mr. Underwood inquired.

"Not this morning," Darrell replied; "a brisk walk will do me good." And
a moment later they heard his firm step on the gravelled driveway.

Mr. Underwood having finished his reading of the morning paper passed it
to his sister.

"Pretty good write-up of last night's affair," he commented, as he
replaced his spectacles in their case.

"Is there? I'll look it up after breakfast; I haven't my glasses now,"
Mrs. Dean replied. "I thought myself that everything passed off pretty
well. What did you think of Katherine last night, David?"

The lines about his mouth deepened as he answered, quietly,--

"She'll do, if she is my child. I didn't see any finer than she; and old
Stockton's daughter, with all her father's millions, couldn't touch
her!"

"I had no idea the child was so beautiful," Mrs. Dean continued; "she
seemed to come out so unexpectedly some way, just like a flower
unfolding. I never was so surprised in my life."

"I guess the little girl took a good many of 'em by surprise, judging by
appearances," Mr. Underwood remarked, a shrewd smile lighting his stern
features.

"Yes, she received a great deal of attention," rejoined his sister. "I
suppose," she added thoughtfully, "she'll have lots of admirers 'round
here now."

"No, she won't," Mr. Underwood retorted, with decision, at the same
time pushing back his chair and rising hastily; "I'll see to it that she
doesn't. If the right man steps up and means business, all right; but
I'll have no hangers-on or fortune-hunters dawdling about!"

His sister watched him curiously with a faint smile. "You had better
advertise for the kind of man you want," she said, dryly, "and state
that 'none others need apply,' as a warning to applicants whom you might
consider undesirable."

Mr. Underwood turned quickly. "What are you driving at?" he demanded,
impatiently. "I've no time for beating about the bush."

"And I've no time for explanations," she replied, with exasperating
calmness; "you can think it over at your leisure."

With a contemptuous "Humph!" Mr. Underwood left the house. After he had
gone his sister sat for a while in deep thought, then, with a sigh, rose
and went about her accustomed duties. She had been far more keen than
her brother to observe the growing intimacy between her niece and
Darrell, and she had seen some indications on the previous evening which
troubled her, as much on Darrell's account as Kate's, for she had become
deeply attached to the young man, and she well knew that her brother
would not look upon him with favor as a suitor for his daughter.

Meanwhile, Darrell, on reaching the office, found work and study alike
impossible. The room seemed narrow and stifling; the medley of sound
from the adjoining offices and from the street was distracting. He
recalled the companions of his earlier days of pain and conflict,--the
mountains,--and his heart yearned for their restful silence, for the
soothing and uplifting of their solemn presence.

Having left a brief note on Mr. Underwood's desk he closed his office,
and, leaving the city behind him, started on foot up the familiar canyon
road. After a walk of an hour or more he left the road, and, striking
into a steep, narrow trail, began the ascent of one of the mountains of
the main range. It still lacked a little of midday when he at last found
himself on a narrow bench, near the summit, in a small growth of pines
and firs. He stopped from sheer exhaustion and looked about him. Not a
sign of human life was visible; not a sound broke the stillness save an
occasional breath of air murmuring through the pines and the trickling
of a tiny rivulet over the rocks just above where he stood. Going to the
little stream he caught the crystal drops as they fell, quenching his
thirst and bathing his heated brow; then, somewhat refreshed, he braced
himself for the inevitable conflict.

Slowly he paced up and down the rocky ledge, giving no heed to the
passage of time, all his faculties centred upon the struggle between the
inexorable demands of conscience on the one hand and the insatiate
cravings of a newly awakened passion on the other. Vainly he strove to
find some middle ground. Gradually, as his brain grew calm, the various
courses of action which had at first suggested themselves to his mind
appeared weak and cowardly, and the only course open to him was that of
renunciation and of self-immolation.

With a bitter cry he threw himself, face downward, upon the ground. A
long time he lay there, till at last the peace from the great pitying
heart of Nature touched his heart, and he slept on the warm bosom of
Mother Earth as a child on its mother's breast.

The sun was sinking towards the western ranges and slowly lengthening
shadows were creeping athwart the distant valleys when Darrell rose to
his feet and, after silently drinking in the beauty of the scene about
him, prepared to descend. His face bore traces of the recent struggle,
but it was the face of one who had conquered, whose mastery of himself
was beyond all doubt or question. He took the homeward trail with firm
step, with head erect, with face set and determined, and there was in
his bearing that which indicated that there would be no wavering, no
swerving from his purpose. His own hand had closed and bolted the gates
of the Eden whose sweets he had but just tasted, and his conscience held
the flaming sword which was henceforth to guard those portals.

A little later, as Darrell in the early twilight passed up the driveway
to The Pines, he was conscious only of a dull, leaden weight within his
breast; his very senses seemed benumbed and he almost believed himself
incapable of further suffering, till, as he approached the house, the
sight of Kate seated in the veranda with her father and aunt and the
thought of the suffering yet in store for her thrilled him anew with
most poignant pain.

His face was in the shadow as he came up the steps, and only Kate,
seated near him, saw its pallor. She started and would have uttered an
exclamation, but something in its expression awed and restrained her.
There was a grave tenderness in his eyes as they met hers, but the light
and joy which had been there when last she looked into them had gone out
and in their place were dark gloom and despair. She heard as in a dream
his answers to the inquiries of her father and aunt; heard him pass into
the house accompanied by her aunt, who had prepared a substantial lunch
against his return, and, with a strange sinking at her heart, sat
silently awaiting his coming out.

It had been a trying day for her. On waking, her happiness had seemed
complete, but Darrell's absence on that morning of all mornings had
seemed to her inexplicable, and when her guests had taken their
departure and the long day wore on without his return and with no
message from him, an indefinable dread haunted her. She had watched
eagerly for Darrell's return, believing that one look into his face
would banish her forebodings, but, instead, she had read there only a
confirmation of her fears. And now she waited in suspense, longing, yet
dreading to hear his step.

At last he came, and, as he faced the light, Kate was shocked at the
change which so few hours had wrought. He, too, was touched by the
piteous appeal in her eyes, and there was a rare tenderness in voice and
smile as he suggested a stroll through the grounds according to their
custom, which somewhat reassured her.

Perhaps Mr. Underwood and his sister had observed the old shadow of
gloom in Darrell's face, and surmised something of its cause, for their
eyes followed the young people in their walk up and down under the pines
and a softened look stole into their usually impassive faces. At last,
as they passed out of sight on one of the mountain terraces, Mrs. Dean
said, with slight hesitation,--

"Did it ever occur to you, David, that Katherine and Mr. Darrell are
thrown in each other's society a great deal?"

Mr. Underwood shot a keen glance at his sister from under his heavy
brows, as he replied,--

"Come to think of it, I suppose they are, though I can't say as I've
ever given the matter much thought."

"Perhaps it's time you did think about it."

"Come, Marcia," said her brother, good-humoredly, "come to the point;
are you, woman-like, scenting a love-affair in that direction?"

Mrs. Dean found herself unexpectedly cornered. "I don't say that there
is, but I don't know what else you could expect of two young folks like
them, thrown together constantly as they are."

"Well," said Mr. Underwood, with an air of comic perplexity, "do you
want me to send Darrell adrift, or shall I pack Puss off to a convent?"

"Now, David, I'm serious," his sister remonstrated, mildly. "Of course,
I don't know that anything will come of it; but if you don't want that
anything should, I think it's your duty, for Katherine's sake and Mr.
Darrell's also, to prevent it. I think too much of them both to see any
trouble come to either of them."

Mr. Underwood puffed at his pipe in silence, while the gleaming needles
in his sister's fingers clicked with monotonous regularity. When he
spoke his tones lacked their usual brusqueness and had an element almost
of gentleness.

"Was this what was in your mind this morning, Marcia?"

"Well, maybe so," his sister assented.

"I don't think, Marcia, that I need any one to tell me my duty,
especially regarding my child. I have my own plans for her future, and I
will allow nothing to interfere with them. And as for John Darrell, he
has the good, sterling sense to know that anything more than friendship
between him and Kate is not to be thought of for a moment, and I can
trust to his honor as a gentleman that he will not go beyond it. So I
rather think your anxieties are groundless."

"Perhaps so," his sister answered, doubtfully, "but young folks are not
generally governed much by common sense in things of this kind; and then
you know, David, Katherine is different from us,--she grows more and
more like her mother,--and if she once got her heart set on any one, I
don't think anybody--even you--could make her change."

The muscles of Mr. Underwood's face suddenly contracted as though by
acute pain.

"That will do, Marcia," he said, gravely, with a silencing wave of his
hand; "there is no need to call up the past. I know Kate is like her
mother, but she has my blood in her veins also,--enough that when the
time comes she'll not let any childish sentimentality stand in the way
of what I think is for her good."

Mrs. Dean silently folded her knitting and rose to go into the house. At
the door, however, she paused, and, looking back at her brother, said,
in her low, even tones,--

"I have said my last word of this affair, David, no matter what comes of
it. You think you understand Katherine better than I, but you may find
some day that it's better to prevent trouble than to try to cure it."

Meanwhile, Darrell and Kate had reached their favorite seat beneath the
pines and, after one or two futile attempts at talking, had lapsed into
a constrained silence. To Kate there came a sudden realization that the
merely friendly relations heretofore existing between them had been
swept away; that henceforth she must either give the man at her side the
concentrated affection of her whole being or, should he prove
unworthy,--she glanced at his haggard face and could not complete the
supposition even to herself. He was troubled, and her tender heart
longed to comfort him, but his strange appearance held her back. At one
word, one sign of love from him, she would have thrown herself upon his
breast and begged to share his burden in true woman fashion; but he was
so cold, so distant; he did not even take her hand as in the careless,
happy days before either of them thought of love.

Kate could endure the silence no longer, and ventured some timid word of
loving sympathy.

Darrell turned, facing her, his dark eyes strangely hollow and sunken.

"Yes," he said, in a low voice, "God knows I have suffered since I saw
you, but I deserve to suffer for having so far forgotten myself last
night. That is not what is troubling me now; it is the thought of the
sorrow and wretchedness I have brought into your pure, innocent
life,--that you must suffer for my folly, my wrong-doing."

"But," interposed Kate, "I don't understand; what wrong have you done?"

"Kathie," he answered, brokenly, "it was all a mistake--a terrible
mistake of mine! Can you forgive me? Can you forget? God grant you can!"

"Forgive! Forget!" she exclaimed, in bewildered tones; "a mistake?" her
voice faltered and she paused, her face growing deathly pale.

"I cannot think," he continued, "how I came to so forget myself, the
circumstances under which I am here, the kindness you and your people
have shown me, and the trust they have reposed in me. I must have been
beside myself. But I have no excuse to offer; I can only ask your
forgiveness, and that I may, so far as possible, undo what has been
done."

While he was speaking she had drawn away from him, and, sitting proudly
erect, she scanned his face in the waning light as though to read there
the full significance of his meaning. Her cheeks blanched at his last
words, but there was no tremor in her tones as she replied,--

"I understand you to refer to what occurred last night; is that what you
wish undone--what you would have me forget?"

"I would give worlds if only it might be undone," he answered, "but that
is an impossibility. Oh Kathie, I know how monstrous, how cruel this
must seem to you, but it is the only honorable course left me after my
stupidity, my cursed folly; and, believe me, it is far more of a
kindness even to you to stop this wretched business right here than to
carry it farther."

"It is not necessary to consider my feelings in the matter, Mr. Darrell.
If, as you say, you found yourself mistaken, to attempt after that to
carry on what could only be a mere farce would be simply unpardonable. A
mistake I could forgive; a deliberate deception, never!"

The tones, so unlike Kate's, caused Darrell to turn in pained surprise.
The deepening shadows hid the white, drawn face and quivering lips; he
saw only the motionless, slender figure held so rigidly erect.

"But, Kathie--Miss Underwood--you must have misunderstood me," he said,
earnestly. "I have acted foolishly, but in no way falsely. You could
not, under any circumstances, accuse me of deception----"

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Darrell," she interposed, more gently; "I did
not intend to accuse you of deception. I only meant that, regardless of
any personal feeling, it was, as you said, better to stop this; that to
carry it farther after you had found you did not care for me as you
supposed--or as I was led to suppose----" She paused an instant,
uncertain how to proceed.

"Kathie, Kathie! what are you saying?" Darrell exclaimed. "What have I
said that you should so misunderstand me?"

"But," she protested, piteously, struggling to control her voice, "did
you not say that it was all a mistake on your part--that you wished it
all undone? What else could I understand?"

"My poor child!" said Darrell, tenderly; then reaching over and
possessing himself of one of her hands, he continued, gravely:

"The mistake was mine in that I ever allowed myself to think of loving
you when love is not for me. I have no right, Kathie, to love you, or
any other woman, as I am now. I did not know until last night that I did
love you. Then it came upon me like a revelation,--a revelation so
overwhelming that it swept all else before it. You, and you alone,
filled my thoughts. Wherever I was, I saw you, heard you, and you only.
Again and again in imagination I clasped you to my breast, I felt your
kisses on my lips,--just as I afterwards felt them in reality."

He paused a moment and dropped the hand he had taken. Under cover of the
shadows Kate's tears were falling unchecked; one, falling on Darrell's
hand, had warned him that there must be no weakening, no softening.

His voice was almost stern as he resumed. "For those few hours I forgot
that I was a being apart from the rest of the world, exiled to darkness
and oblivion; forgot the obligations to myself and to others which my
own condition imposes upon me. But the dream passed; I awoke to a
realization of what I had done, and whatever I have suffered since is
but the just penalty of my folly. The worst of all is that I have
involved you in needless suffering; I have won your love only to have to
put it aside--to renounce it. But even this is better--far better than
to allow your young life to come one step farther within the clouds
that envelop my own. Do you understand me now, Kathie?"

"Yes," she replied, calmly; "I understand it from your view, as it looks
to you."

"But is not that the only view?"

She did not speak at once, and when she did it was with a peculiar
deliberation.

"The clouds will lift one day; what then?"

Darrell's voice trembled with emotion as he replied, "We cannot trust to
that, for neither you nor I know what the light will reveal."

She remained silent, and Darrell, after a pause, continued: "Don't make
it harder for me, Kathie; there is but one course for us to follow in
honor to ourselves or to each other."

They sat in silence for a few moments; then both rose simultaneously to
return to the house, and as they did so Darrell was conscious of a new
bearing in Kate's manner,--an added dignity and womanliness. As they
faced one another Darrell took both her hands in his, saying,--

"What is it to be, Kathie? Can we return to the old friendship?"

She stood for a moment with averted face, watching the stars brightening
one by one in the evening sky.

"No," she said, presently, "we can never return to that now; it would
seem too bare, too meagre. There will always be something deeper and
sweeter than mere friendship between us,--unless you fail me, and I know
you will not."

"And do you forgive me?" he asked.

She turned then, looking him full in the eyes, and her own seemed to
have caught the radiance of the stars themselves, as she answered,
simply,--

"No, John Darrell, for there is nothing to forgive."




_Chapter XVII_

"SHE KNOWS HER FATHER'S WILL IS LAW"


Though the succeeding days and weeks dragged wearily for Darrell, he
applied himself anew to work and study, and only the lurking shadows
within his eyes, the deepening lines on his face, the fast multiplying
gleams of silver in his dark hair, gave evidence of his suffering.

And if to Kate the summer seemed suddenly to have lost its glory and
music, if she found the round of social pleasures on which she had just
entered grown strangely insipid, if it sometimes seemed to her that she
had quaffed all the richness and sweetness of life on that wondrous
first night till only the dregs remained, she gave no sign. With her
sunny smile and lightsome ways she reigned supreme, both in society and
in the home, and none but her aunt and Darrell missed the old-time
rippling laughter or noted the deepening wistfulness and seriousness of
the fair young face.

Her father watched her with growing pride, and with a visible
satisfaction which told of carefully laid plans known only to himself,
whose consummation he deemed not far distant.

Acting on the suggestion of his sister, he had been closely observant of
both Kate and Darrell, but any conclusions which he formed he kept to
himself and went his way apparently well satisfied.

At the close of an unusually busy day late in the summer Darrell was
seated alone in his office, reviewing his life in the West and vaguely
wondering what would yet be the outcome of it all, when Mr. Underwood
entered from the adjoining room. Exultation and elation were patent in
his very step, but Darrell, lost in thought, was hardly conscious even
of his presence.

"Well, my boy, what are you mooning over?" Mr. Underwood asked,
good-naturedly, noting Darrell's abstraction.

"Only trying to find a solution for problems as yet insoluble," Darrell
answered, with a smile that ended in a sigh.

"Stick to the practical side of life, boy, and let the problems solve
themselves."

"A very good rule to follow, provided the problems would solve
themselves," commented Darrell.

"Those things generally work themselves out after a while," said Mr.
Underwood, walking up and down the room. "I say, don't meddle with what
you can't understand; take what you can understand and make a practical
application of it. That's always been my motto, and if people would
stick to that principle in commercial life, in religion, and everything
else, there'd be fewer failures in business, less wrangling in the
churches, and more good accomplished generally."

"I guess you are about right there," Darrell admitted.

"Been pretty busy to-day, haven't you?" Mr. Underwood asked, abruptly,
after a short pause.

"Yes, uncommonly so; work is increasing of late."

"That's good. Well, it has been a busy day with us; rather an eventful
one, in fact; one which Walcott and I will remember with pleasure, I
trust, for a good many years to come."

"How is that?" Darrell inquired, wondering at the pleasurable excitement
in the elder man's tones.

"We made a little change in the partnership to-day: Walcott is now an
equal partner with myself."

Darrell remained silent from sheer astonishment. Mr. Underwood evidently
considered his silence an indication of disapproval, for he continued:

"I know you don't like the man, Darrell, so there's no use of arguing
that side of the question, but I tell you he has proved himself
invaluable to me. You might not think it, but it's a fact that the
business in this office has increased fifty per cent. since he came into
it. He is thoroughly capable, responsible, honest,--just the sort of man
that I can intrust the business to as I grow older and know that it will
be carried on as well as though I was at the helm myself."

"Still, a half-interest seems pretty large for a man with no more
capital in the business than he has," said Darrell, determined to make
no personal reference to Walcott.

"He has put in fifty thousand additional since he came in," Mr.
Underwood replied.

Darrell whistled softly.

"Oh, he has money all right; I'm satisfied of that. I'm satisfied that
he could have furnished the money to begin with, only he was lying low."

"Well, he certainly has nothing to complain of; you've done more than
well by him."

"No better proportionately than I would have done by you, my boy, if you
had come in with me last spring when I asked you to. I had this thing in
view then, and had made up my mind you'd make the right man for the
place, but you wouldn't hear to it."

"That's all right, Mr. Underwood," said Darrell; "I appreciate your kind
intentions just the same, but I am more than ever satisfied that I
wouldn't have been the right man for the place."

Both men were silent for some little time, but neither showed any
inclination to terminate the interview. Mr. Underwood was still pacing
back and forth, while Darrell had risen and was standing by the window,
looking out absently into the street.

"That isn't all of it, and I may as well tell you the rest," said Mr.
Underwood, suddenly pausing near Darrell, his manner much like a
school-boy who has a confession to make and hardly knows how to begin.
"Mr. Walcott to-day asked me--asked my permission to pay his addresses
to my daughter--my little girl," he added, under his breath, and there
was a strange note of tenderness in the usually brusque voice.

If ever Darrell was thankful, it was that he could at that moment look
the father squarely in the face. He turned, facing Mr. Underwood, his
dark eyes fairly blazing.

"And you gave your permission?" he asked, slowly, with terrible emphasis
on each word.

"Most assuredly," Mr. Underwood retorted, quickly, stung to self-defence
by Darrell's look and tone. "I may add that I have had this thing in
mind for some time--have felt that it was coming; in fact, this new
partnership arrangement was made with a view to facilitate matters, and
he was enough of a gentleman to come forward at once with his
proposition."

Darrell gazed out of the window again with unseeing eyes. "Mr.
Underwood," he said, in a low tone, "I would never have believed it
possible that your infatuation for that man would have led to this."

"There is no infatuation about it," the elder man replied, hotly; "it is
a matter of good, sound judgment and business calculation. I know of no
man among our townspeople, or even in the State, to whom I would give my
daughter as soon as I would to Walcott. There are others who may have
larger means now, but they haven't got his business ability. With what I
can give Puss, what he has now, and what he will make within the next
few years, she will have a home and position equal to the best."

"Is that all you think of, Mr. Underwood?"

"Not all, by any means; but it's a mighty important consideration, just
the same. But the man is all right morally; you, with all your prejudice
against him, can't lay your finger on one flaw in his character."

"Mr. Underwood," said Darrell, slowly, "I have studied that man, I have
heard him talk. He has no conception of life beyond the sensual, the
animal; he is a brute, a beast, in thought and act. He is no more fit to
marry your daughter, or even to associate with her, than----"

"Young man," interrupted Mr. Underwood, laughing good-humoredly, "I have
only one thing against you: you are not exactly practical. You are, like
my friend Britton, inclined to rather high ideals. We don't generally
find men built according to those ideals, and we have to take 'em as we
find 'em."

"But you will, of course, allow your daughter to act according to her
own judgment? You surely would not force her into any marriage
distasteful to her?" Darrell asked, remembering Kate's aversion for
Walcott.

"A young girl's judgment in those matters is not often to be relied
upon. Kate knows that I consider only her best interests, and I think
her judgment could be brought to coincide with my own. At any rate, she
knows her father's will is law."

As Darrell, convinced that argument would be useless, made no reply, Mr.
Underwood added, after a pause,--

"I know I can trust to your honor that you will not influence her
against Walcott?"

"I shall not, of course, attempt to influence her one way or the other.
I have no right; but if I had the right,--if she were my sister,--that
man should never so much as touch the hem of her garment!"

"My boy," said Mr. Underwood, rather brusquely, extending one hand and
laying the other on Darrell's shoulder, "I understand, and you're all
right. We all consider you one of ourselves, and," he added, somewhat
awkwardly, "you understand, if conditions were not just as they are----"

"But conditions are just as they are," Darrell interposed, quickly, "so
there is no use discussing what might be were they different."

The bitterness in his tones struck a chord of sympathy within the heart
of the man beside him, but he knew not how to express it, and it is
doubtful whether he would have voiced it had he known how. The two
clasped hands silently; then, without a word, the elder man left the
room.

Not until now had Darrell realized how strong had been the hope within
his breast that some crisis in his condition might yet reveal enough to
make possible the fulfilment of his love. The pleasant relations between
himself and Kate in many respects still remained practically unchanged.
True, his sense of honor forbade any return to the tender familiarities
of the past, but there yet existed between them a tacit, unspoken
comradeship, beneath which flowed, deeply and silently, the undercurrent
of love, not to be easily diverted or turned aside. But this he now felt
would soon be changed, while all hope for the future must be abandoned.

With a heavy heart Darrell awaited developments. He soon noted a marked
increase in the frequency of Walcott's calls at The Pines, and, not
caring to embarrass Kate by his presence, he absented himself from the
house as often as possible on those occasions.

Walcott himself must have been very soon aware that in his courtship Mr.
Underwood was his sole partisan, but he bore himself with a confidence
and assurance which would brook no thought of defeat. Mrs. Dean, knowing
her brother as she did, was quick to understand the situation, and
silently showed her disapproval; but Walcott politely ignored her
disfavor as not worth his consideration.

At first, Kate, considering him her father's guest, received him with
the same frank, winning courtesy which she extended to others, and he,
quick to make the most of every opportunity, exerted himself to the
utmost in his efforts to entertain his young hostess and her friends. To
a certain extent he succeeded, in that Kate was compelled to admit to
herself that he could be far more agreeable than she had ever supposed.
He had travelled extensively and was possessed of good descriptive
powers; his voice was low and musical, and his eyes, limpid and tender
whenever he fixed them upon her face, held her glance by some
irresistible, magnetic force, and invariably brought the deepening color
to her cheeks.

With the first inkling, however, of the nature of his visits, all her
old abhorrence of him returned with increased intensity, but her
ill-concealed aversion only furnished him with a new incentive and
spurred him to redouble his attentions.

The only opposition encountered by him that appeared in the least to
disturb his equanimity, was that of Duke, which was on all occasions
most forcibly expressed, the latter never failing to greet him with a
low growl, meeting all overtures of friendship with an ominous gleam in
his intelligent eyes and a display of ivory that made Mr. Walcott only
too willing to desist.

"Really, Miss Underwood," Walcott remarked one evening when Duke had
been more than usually demonstrative, "your pet's attentions to me are
sometimes a trifle distracting. Could you not occasionally bestow the
pleasure of his society upon some one else--Mr. Darrell, for instance? I
imagine the two might prove quite congenial to each other."

"Please remember, Mr. Walcott, you are speaking of a friend of mine,"
Kate replied, coldly.

"Mr. Darrell? I beg pardon, I meant no offence; but since he and Duke
seem to share the same unaccountable antipathy towards myself, I
naturally thought there would be a bond of sympathy between them."

Kate had been playing, and was still seated at the piano, idly waiting
for Walcott, who was turning the pages of a new music-book, to make
another selection. She now rose rather wearily, and, leaving the piano,
joined her father and aunt upon the veranda outside.

Walcott pushed the music from him, and, taking Kate's mandolin from off
the piano, followed. Throwing himself down upon the steps at Kate's feet
in an attitude of genuine Spanish abandon and grace, he said, lightly,--

"Since you will not favor us further, I will see what I can do."

He possessed little technical knowledge of music, but had quite a
repertoire of songs picked up in his travels in various countries, to
which he could accompany himself upon the guitar or mandolin.

He strummed the strings carelessly for a moment, then, in a low voice,
began a Spanish love-song. There was no need of an interpreter to make
known to Kate the meaning of the song. The low, sweet cadences were full
of tender pleading, every note was tremulous with passion, while the
dark eyes holding her own seemed burning into her very soul.

But the spell of the music worked far differently from Walcott's hopes
or anticipations. Even while angry at herself for listening, Kate could
scarcely restrain the tears, for the tender love-strains brought back so
vividly the memory of those hours--so brief and fleeting--in which she
had known the pure, unalloyed joy of love, that her heart seemed near
bursting. As the last lingering notes died away, the pain was more than
she could endure, and, pleading a slight headache, she excused herself
and went to her room. Throwing herself upon the bed, she gave way to her
feelings, sobbing bitterly as she recalled the sudden, hopeless ending
of the most perfect happiness her young life had ever known. Gradually
the violence of her grief subsided and she grew more calm, but a dull
pain was at her heart, for though unwilling to admit it even to herself,
she was hurt at Darrell's absence on the occasions of Walcott's visits.

"Why does he leave me when he knows I can't endure the sight of that
man?" she soliloquized, sorrowfully. "If he would stay by me the
creature would not dare make love to me. Oh, if we could only just be
lovers until all this dreadful uncertainty is past! I'm sure it would
come out all right, and I would gladly wait years for him, if only he
would let me!"

As she sat alone in her misery she heard Walcott take his departure. A
little later Darrell returned and went to his room, and soon after she
heard her aunt's step in the hall, followed by a quiet knock at her
door.

"Come in, auntie," she called, wondering what her errand might be.

"Have you gone to bed, Katherine, or are you up?" Mrs. Dean inquired,
for the room was dark.

"I'm up; why, auntie?"

"Your father said to tell you he wanted to see you, if you had not
retired."

Mrs. Dean stopped a moment to inquire for Kate's headache, and as she
left the room Kate heard her sigh heavily.

A happy thought occurred to Kate as she ran downstairs,--she would have
her father put a stop to Walcott's attentions; if he knew how they
annoyed her he would certainly do it. She entered the room where he
waited with her sunniest smile, for the stern, gruff-voiced man was the
idol of her heart and she believed implicitly in his love for her, even
though it seldom found expression in words.

But her smile faded before the displeasure in her father's face. He
scrutinized her keenly from under his heavy brows, but if he noted the
traces of tears upon her face, he made no comment.

"I did not suppose, Kate," he said, slowly, for he could not bring
himself to speak harshly to her,--"I did not suppose that a child of
mine would treat any guest of this house as rudely as you treated Mr.
Walcott to-night. I sent for you for an explanation."

"I did not mean to be rude, papa," Kate replied, seating herself on her
father's knee and laying one arm caressingly about his neck, "but he did
annoy me so to-night,--he has annoyed me so often of late,--I just
couldn't endure it any longer."

"Has Mr. Walcott ever conducted himself other than as a gentleman?"

"Why, no, papa, he is gentlemanly enough, so far as that is concerned."

"I thought so," her father interposed; "I should say that he had laid
himself out to entertain you and your friends and to make it pleasant
for all of us whenever he has been here. It strikes me that his manners
are very far from annoying; that he is a gentleman in every sense of the
word; he certainly carried himself like one to-night in the face of the
treatment you gave him."

"Well, I'm sorry if I was rude. I have no objection to him as a
gentleman or as an acquaintance, if he would not go beyond that; but I
detest his attentions and his love-making, and he will not stop even
when he sees that it annoys me."

"No one has a better right to pay his attentions to you, for he has
asked and received my permission to do so."

Kate drew herself upright and gazed at her father with eyes full of
horror.

"You gave him permission to pay attention to me!" she exclaimed, slowly,
as though scarcely comprehending his meaning; then, springing to her
feet and drawing herself to her full height, she demanded,--

"Do you mean, papa, that you intend me to marry him?"

For an instant Mr. Underwood felt ill at ease; Kate's face was white and
her eyes had the look of a creature brought to bay, that sees no escape
from the death confronting it, for even in that brief time Kate, knowing
her father's indomitable will, realized with a sense of despair the
hopelessness of her situation.

"I suppose your marriage will be the outcome,--at least, I hope so,"
her father replied, quickly recovering his composure, "for I certainly
know of no one to whom I would so willingly intrust your future
happiness. Listen to me, Kate: have I not always planned and worked for
your best interests?"

"You always have, papa."

"Have I not always chosen what was for your good and for your
happiness?"

Kate gave a silent assent.

"Very well; then I think you can trust to my judgment in this case."

"But, papa," she protested, "this is different. I never can love that
man; I abhor him--loathe him! Do you think there can be any happiness or
good in a marriage without love? Would you and mamma have been happy
together if you had not loved each other?"

No sooner had she spoken the words than she regretted them as she noted
the look of pain that crossed her father's face. In his silent,
undemonstrative way he had idolized his wife, and it was seldom that he
would allow any allusion to her in his presence.

"I don't know why you should call up the past," he said, after a pause,
"but since you have I will tell you that your mother when a girl like
yourself objected to our marriage; she thought that we were unsuited to
each other and that we could never live happily together. She listened,
however, to the advice of those older and wiser than she, and you know
the result." The strong man's voice trembled slightly. "I think our
married life was a happy one. It was for me, I know; I hope it was for
her."

A long silence followed. To Kate there came the memory of the frail,
young mother lying, day after day, upon her couch in the solitude of her
sick-room, often weeping silently, while she, a mere child, knelt sadly
and wistfully beside her, as silently wiping the tear-drops as they fell
and wondering at their cause. She understood now, but not for worlds
would she have spoken one word to pain her father's heart.

At last Mr. Underwood said, rising as though to end the interview, "I
think I can depend upon you now, Kate, to carry out my wishes in this
matter."

Kate rose proudly. "I have never disobeyed you, papa; I will treat Mr.
Walcott courteously; but even though you force me to marry him I will
never, never love him, and I shall tell him so."

Her father smiled. "Mr. Walcott, I think, has too much good sense to
attach much weight to any girlish whims; that will pass, you will think
differently by and by."

As she stopped for her usual good-night kiss she threw her arms about
her father's neck, and, looking appealingly into his face, said,--

"Papa, it need not be very soon, need it? You are not in a hurry to be
rid of your little girl?"

"Don't talk foolishly, child," he answered, hastily; "you know I've no
wish to be rid of you, but I do want to see you settled in a home of
your own--equal to the best, and, as I said a while ago, and told Mr.
Darrell in talking the matter over with him, I know of no one in whose
hands I would so willingly place you and your happiness as Mr.
Walcott's. As for the date and other matters of that sort," he added,
playfully pinching her cheeks, "I suppose those will all be mutually
arranged between the gentleman and yourself."

Kate had started back slightly. "You have talked this over with Mr.
Darrell?" she exclaimed.

"Yes, why not?"

"What did he think of it?"

"Well," said her father, slowly, "naturally he did not quite fall in
with my views, for I think he is not just what you could call a
disinterested party. I more than half suspect that Mr. Darrell would
like to step into Mr. Walcott's place himself, if he were only eligible,
but knowing that he is not, he is too much of a gentleman to commit
himself in any way."

Mr. Underwood scanned his daughter's face keenly as he spoke, but it was
as impassive as his own. To Kate, Darrell's absences of late were now
explained; he understood it all. She kissed her father silently.

"You know, Puss, I am looking out for your best interests in all of
this," said her father, a little troubled by her silence.

"I know that is your intention, papa," she replied, with gentle gravity,
and left the room.




_Chapter XVIII_

ON THE "DIVIDE"


Summer had merged into autumn. Crisp, exhilarating mornings ushered in
glorious days flooded with sunshine, followed by sparkling, frosty
nights.

The strike at the mining camp had been adjusted; the union
boarding-house after two months was found a failure and abandoned, and
the strikers gradually returned to their work. Mr. Underwood, during the
shut-down, had improved the time to enlarge the mill and add
considerable new machinery; this work was now nearly completed; in two
weeks the mill would again be running, and he offered Darrell his old
position as assayer in charge, which the latter, somewhat to Mr.
Underwood's surprise, accepted.

Although his city business was now quite well established, Darrell felt
that life at The Pines was becoming unendurable. Walcott's visits were
now so frequent it was impossible longer to avoid him. The latter's air
of easy self-assurance, the terms of endearment which fell so flippantly
from his lips, and his bold, passionate glances which never failed to
bring the rich, warm blood to Kate's cheeks and brow, all to one
possessing Darrell's fine chivalric nature and his delicacy of feeling
were intolerable. In addition, the growing indications of Kate's
unhappiness, the silent appeal in her eyes, the pathetic curves forming
about her mouth, and the touch of pathos in the voice whose every tone
was music to his ear, seemed at times more than he could bear.

There were hours--silent, brooding hours of the night--when he was
sorely tempted to defy past and future alike, and, despite the
conditions surrounding himself, to rescue her from a life which could
have in store for her nothing but bitterness and sorrow. But with the
dawn his better judgment returned; conscience, inexorable as ever, still
held sway; he kept his own counsel as in duty bound, going his way with
a heart that grew heavier day by day, and was hence glad of an
opportunity to return once more to the seclusion of the mountains.

Kate, realizing that all further appeal to her father was useless, as a
last resort trusted to Walcott's sense of honor, that, when he should
fully understand her feelings towards himself, he would discontinue his
attentions. But in this she found herself mistaken. Taking advantage of
the courtesy which she extended to him in accordance with the promise
given her father, he pressed his suit more ardently than ever.

"Why do you persist in annoying me in this manner?" she demanded one
day, indignantly withdrawing from his attempted caresses. "The fact that
my father has given you his permission to pay attention to me does not
warrant any such familiarity on your part."

"Perhaps not," Walcott replied, in his low, musical tones, "but stolen
waters are often sweetest. If I have offended, pardon. I supposed my
love for you would justify me in offering any expression of it, but
since you say I have no right to do so, I beg of you, my dear Miss
Underwood, to give me that right."

"That is impossible," Kate answered, firmly.

"Why impossible?" he asked.

"Because I will not accept any expressions of a love that I cannot
reciprocate."

"Love begets love," he argued, softly; "so long as you keep me at arm's
length you have no means of knowing whether or not you could reciprocate
my affection. Mr. Underwood has done me the great honor to consent to
bestow his daughter's hand upon me, and I have no doubt of yet winning
the consent of the lady herself if she will but give me a fair chance."

"Mr. Walcott," said Kate, her eyes ablaze with indignation, "would you
make a woman your wife who did not love you--who never could, under any
circumstances, love you?"

Walcott suddenly seized her hands in his, looking down into her eyes
with his steady, dominant gaze.

"If I loved her as I love you," he said, slowly, "I would make her my
wife though she hated me,--and win her love afterwards! I can win it,
and I will!"

"Never!" Kate exclaimed, passionately, but he had kissed her hands and
was gone before she could recover herself.

In that look she had for the first time comprehended something of the
man's real nature, of the powerful brute force concealed beneath the
smooth, smiling exterior. Her heart seemed seized and held in a
vise-like grip, while a cold, benumbing despair settled upon her like an
incubus, which she was unable to throw off for days.

It lacked only two days of the time set for Darrell's return to the
mining camp when he and Kate set out one afternoon accompanied by Duke
for a ride up the familiar canyon road. At first their ponies cantered
briskly, but as the road grew more rough and steep they were finally
content to walk quietly side by side.

For a while neither Darrell nor Kate had much to say. Their hearts were
too oppressed for words. Each realized that this little jaunt into the
mountains was their last together; that it constituted a sort of
farewell to their happy life of the past summer and to each other. Each
was thinking of their first meeting under the pines on that evening
gorgeous with the sunset rays and sweet with the breath of June roses.

At last they turned into a trail which soon grew so steep and narrow
that they dismounted, and, fastening their ponies, proceeded up the
trail on foot. Slowly they wended their way upward, pausing at length on
a broad, projecting ledge a little below the summit, where they seated
themselves on the rocks to rest a while. Kate's eyes wandered afar over
the wonderful scene before them, wrapped in unbroken silence, yet
palpitating in the mellow, golden sunlight with a mysterious life and
beauty all its own.

But Darrell was for once oblivious to the scene; his eyes were fastened
on Kate's face, a look in them of insatiable hunger, as though he were
storing up the memory of every line and lineament against the barren
days to come. He wondered if the silent, calm-faced, self-contained
woman beside him could be the laughing, joyous maiden whom he had seen
flitting among the trees and fountains at their first meeting little
more than three months past. He recalled how he had then thought her
unlike either her father or her aunt, and believed her to be wholly
without their self-restraint and self-repression. Now he saw that the
same stoical blood was in her veins. Already the sensitive, mobile face,
which had mirrored every emotion of the impulsive, sympathetic soul
within, bore something of the impassive calm of the rocks surrounding
them; it might have been chiselled in marble, so devoid was it at that
moment of any trace of feeling.

A faint sigh seemed to break the spell, and she turned facing him with
her old-time sunny smile.

"What a regal day!" she exclaimed.

"It is," he replied; "it was on such a day as this, about a year ago,
that I first met Mr. Britton. He called it, I remember, one of the
'coronation days' of the year. I have been reminded of the phrase and of
him all day."

"Dear Mr. Britton," said Kate, "I have not seen him for more than two
years. He has always been like a second father to me; he used to have me
call him 'papa' when I was little, and I've always loved him next to
papa. You and he correspond, do you not?"

"Yes; he writes rather irregularly, but his letters are precious to me.
He was the first to make me feel that this cramped fettered life of mine
held any good or anything worth living for. He made me ashamed of my
selfish sorrow, and every message from him, no matter how brief, seems
like an inspiration to something higher and nobler."

"He makes us all conscious of our selfishness," Kate answered, "for if
ever there was an unselfish life,--a life devoted to the alleviation of
the sufferings and sorrows of others,--it is his. I wish he were here
now," she added, with a sigh; "he has more influence with papa than all
the rest of us combined, though perhaps nothing even he might say would
be availing in this instance."

In all their friendly intercourse of the last few weeks there had been
one subject tacitly avoided by each, to which, although present in the
mind of each, no reference was ever made. From Kate's last words Darrell
knew that subject must now be met; he must know from her own lips the
worst. He turned sick with dread and remained silent.

A moment later Kate again faced him with a smile, but her eyes glistened
with unshed tears.

"Poor papa!" she said, softly, her lips quivering; "he thinks he is
doing it all for my happiness, and no matter what wretchedness or misery
I suffer, no knowledge of it shall ever pain his dear old heart!"

"Kathie, must it be?" Darrell exclaimed, each word vibrating with
anguish; "is there no hope--no chance of escape for you from such a
fate?"

"I cannot see the slightest reason to hope for escape," she replied,
with the calmness born of despair. She clasped her small hands tightly
and turned a pale, determined face towards Darrell.

"You know, you understand it all, and I know that you do," she said, "so
there is no use in our avoiding this any longer. I want to talk it over
with you and tell you all the truth, so you will not think, by and by,
that I have been false or fickle or weak; but first there is something I
want you to tell me."

She paused a moment, then, looking him full in the eyes, she asked,
earnestly,--

"John Darrell, do you still love me?"

Startled out of his customary self-control, Darrell suddenly clasped her
in his arms, exclaiming,--

"Kathie darling, how can you ask such a question? Do you think my love
for you could ever grow less?"

For a moment her head nestled against his breast with a little movement
of ineffable content, as she replied,--

"No; it was not that I doubted your love, but I wanted an assurance of
it to carry with me through the coming days."

Then, gently withdrawing herself from his embrace, she continued, in the
same calm, even tones:

"You ask if there is no chance of escape; I can see absolutely none;
but I want you to understand, if I am forced into this marriage which
papa has planned for me, that it is not through any weakness or
cowardice on my part; that if I yield, it will be simply because of the
love and reverence I bear my father."

Though her face was slightly averted, Darrell could see the tear-drops
falling, but after a slight pause she proceeded as calmly as before:

"In all these years he has tried to be both father and mother to me, and
even in this he thinks he is acting for my good. I have never disobeyed
him, and were I to do so now I believe it would break his heart. I am
all that he has left, and after what he has suffered in his silent,
Spartan way, I must bring joy--not sorrow--to his declining years. And
this will be my only reason for yielding."

"But, Kathie, dear child," Darrell interposed, "have you considered what
such a life means to you--what is involved in such a sacrifice?"

She met his troubled gaze with a smile. "Yes, I know," she replied;
"there is not a phase of this affair which I have not considered. I am
years older than when we met three months ago, and I have thought of
everything that a woman can think of."

She watched him a moment, the smile on her lips deepening. "Have you
considered this?" she asked. "Only those whom we love have the power to
wound us deeply; one whom I do not love will have little power to hurt
me; he can never reach my heart; that will be safe in your keeping."

Darrell bowed his head upon his hands with a low moan. Kate, laying her
hand lightly upon his shoulder, continued:

"What I particularly wanted you to know before our parting and to
remember is this: that come what may, I shall never be false to my love
for you. No matter what the future may bring to you or to me, my heart
will be yours."

Darrell raised his head, his face tense and rigid with emotion; she had
risen and was standing beside him.

"I can never forgive myself for having won your heart, Kathie," he said,
gravely; "It is the most precious gift that I could ask or you could
bestow, but one to which I have no right."

"Then hold it in trust," she said, softly, "until such time as I have
the right to bestow it upon you and you have the right to accept it."

Startled not only by her words but by the gravity of her tone and
manner, Darrell glanced swiftly towards Kate, but she had turned and was
slowly climbing the mountain path. Springing to his feet he was quickly
at her side. Drawing her arm within his own he assisted her up the rocky
trail, scanning her face as he did so for some clew to the words she had
just spoken. But, excepting a faint flush which deepened under his
scrutiny, she gave no sign, and, the trail for the next half-hour being
too difficult to admit of conversation, they made the ascent in silence.

On reaching the summit an involuntary exclamation burst from Darrell at
the grandeur of the scene. North, west, and south, far as the eye could
reach, stretched the vast mountain ranges, unbroken, with here and there
gigantic peaks, snow-crowned, standing in bold relief against the sky;
while far to the eastward lay the valleys, threaded with silver streams,
and beyond them in the purple distance outlines of other ranges scarcely
distinguishable from the clouds against which they seemed to rest.

Kate watched Darrell, silently enjoying his surprise. "This is my
favorite resort,--on the summit of the 'divide,'" she said; "I thought
you would appreciate it. It involves hard climbing, but it is worth the
effort."

"Worth the effort! Yes, a thousand times! What must it be to see the
sunrise here!"

Lifted out of themselves, they wandered over the rocks, picking the late
flowers which still lingered in the crevices, watching the shifting
beauty of the scene from various points, for a time forgetful of their
trouble, till, looking in each other's eyes, they read the final
farewell underlying all, and the old pain returned with tenfold
intensity.

Seating themselves on the highest point accessible, they talked of the
future, ignoring so far as possible the one dreaded subject, speaking of
Darrell's life in the mining camp, of his studies, and of what he hoped
to accomplish, and of certain plans of her own.

Duke, after an extended tour among the rocks, came and lay at their
feet, watching their faces with anxious solicitude, quick to read their
unspoken sorrow though unable to divine its cause.

At last the little that could be said had been spoken; they paused,
their hearts oppressed with the burden of what remained unsaid, which no
words could express. Duke, perplexed by the long silence, rose and,
coming to Kate's side, stood looking into her eyes with mute inquiry. As
Kate caressed the noble head she turned suddenly to Darrell:

"John, would you like to have Duke with you? Will you take him as a
parting gift from me?"

"I would like to have him above anything you could give me, Kathie," he
replied; "but you must not think of giving him up to me."

"I will have to give him up," she said, simply; "Papa dislikes him
already, he is so unfriendly to Mr. Walcott, and he himself absolutely
hates Duke; I believe he would kill him if he dared; so you understand I
could not keep him much longer. He will be happy with you, for he loves
you, and I will be happy in remembering that you have him."

"In that case," said Darrell, "I shall be only too glad to take him, and
you can rest assured I will never part with him."

The sinking sun warned them that it was time to return, and, after one
farewell look about them, they prepared to descend. As they picked their
way back to the trail they came upon two tiny streams flowing from some
secret spring above them. Side by side, separated by only a few inches,
they rippled over their rocky bed, murmuring to each other in tones so
low that only an attentive ear could catch them, sparkling in the
sunlight as though for very joy. Suddenly, near the edge of the narrow
plateau over which they ran, they turned, and, with a tinkling plash of
farewell, plunged in opposite directions,--the one eastward, hastening
on its way to the Great Father of Waters, the other westward bound,
towards the land of the setting sun.

Silently Kate and Darrell watched them; as their eyes met, his face had
grown white, but Kate smiled, though the tears trembled on the golden
lashes.

"A fit emblem of our loves, Kathie!" Darrell said, sadly.

"Yes," she replied, but her clear voice had a ring of triumph; "a fit
emblem, dear, for though parted now, they will meet in the commingling
of the oceans, just as by and by our loves will mingle in the great
ocean of love. I can imagine how those two little streams will go on
their way, as we must go, each joining in the labor and song of the
rivers as they meet them, but each preserving its own individuality
until they find one another in the ocean currents, as we shall find one
another some day!"

"Kathie," said Darrell, earnestly, drawing nearer to her, "have you such
a hope as that?"

"It is more than hope," she answered, "it is assurance; an assurance
that came to me, I know not whence or how, out of the darkness of
despair."

They had reached the trail, and here Kate paused for a moment. It was a
picture for an artist, the pair standing on that solitary height! The
young girl, fair and slender as the wild flowers clinging to the rocks
at their feet, yet with a poise of conscious strength; the man at her
side, broad-shouldered, deep-chested, strong-limbed; his face dark with
despair, hers lighted with hope.

Suddenly a small white hand swept the horizon with a swift, undulatory
motion that reminded Darrell of the flight of some white-winged bird,
and Kate cried,--

"Did we think of the roughness and steepness of the path below when we
stood here two hours ago and looked on the glory of this scene? Did we
stop to think of the bruises and scratches of the ascent, of how many
times we had stumbled, or of the weariness of the way? No, it was all
forgotten. And so, when we come to stand together, by and by, upon the
heights of love,--such love as we have not even dreamed of yet,--will we
then look back upon the tears, the pain, the heartache of to-day? Will
we stop to recount the sorrows through which we climbed to the shining
heights? No, they will be forgotten in the excess of joy!"

Darrell gazed at Kate in astonishment; her head was uncovered and the
rays of the sinking sun touched with gleams of gold the curling locks
which the breeze had blown about her face, till they seemed like a
golden halo; she had the look of one who sees within the veil which
covers mortal faces; she seemed at that moment something apart from
earth.

Taking her hand in his, he asked, brokenly, "Sweetheart, will that day
ever come, and when?"

Her eyes, luminous with love and hope, rested tenderly upon his shadowed
face as she replied,--

"At the time appointed,

     "'And that will be
     God's own good time, for you and me.'"




_Chapter XIX_

THE RETURN TO CAMP BIRD


The day preceding Darrell's departure found him busily engaged in
"breaking camp," as he termed it. The assayer's outfit which he had
brought from the mill was to be packed, as were also his books, and
quantities of carefully written notes, the results of his explorations
and experiments, to be embodied later in the work which he had in
preparation, were to be sorted and filed.

Late in the afternoon Kate and her aunt, down town on a shopping tour,
looked in upon him.

"Buried up to his ears!" Kate announced at the door, as she caught a
glimpse of Darrell's head over a table piled high with books and
manuscripts; "it's well we came when we did, auntie; a few minutes later
and he would have been invisible!"

"Don't take the trouble to look for seats, Mr. Darrell," she added, her
eyes dancing with mischief as he hastily emerged and began a futile
search for vacant chairs, "we only dropped in for a minute, and
'standing room only' will be sufficient."

"Yes, don't let us hinder you, Mr. Darrell," said Mrs. Dean; "we just
came in to see how you were getting on, and to tell you not to trouble
yourself about the things from the house; we will send and get them
whenever we want them."

"I was thinking of those a while ago," Darrell answered, glancing at the
pictures and hangings which had not yet been removed; "I was wondering
if I ought not to send them up to the house."

"No," said Mrs. Dean, "we do not need them there at present, and any
time we should want them we can send Bennett down after them."

"We will not send for them at all, auntie," said Kate, in her impulsive
way; "I shall keep the room looking as much as possible as when Mr.
Darrell had it, and I shall use it as a waiting-room whenever I have to
wait for papa; it will be much pleasanter than waiting in that dusty,
musty old office of his."

"My room at the camp will look very bare and plain now," said Darrell,
"after all the luxuries with which you have surrounded me; though I
will, of course, get accustomed to it in a few days."

Kate and her aunt slyly exchanged smiles, which Darrell in his momentary
abstraction failed to observe. They chatted pleasantly for a few
moments, but underneath the light words and manner was a sadness that
could not be disguised, and it was with a still heavier heart that
Darrell returned to his work after Kate and her aunt had gone.

At last all was done, the last package was stowed away in the large
wagon which was to carry the goods to camp, and the team moved up the
street in the direction of The Pines, where it was to remain over night
ready for an early start the next morning. Darrell, after a farewell
survey of the little room, followed on foot, heartsick and weary, going
directly to the stables to see the wagon safely stored for the night. He
was surprised to see a second wagon, loaded with furniture, rugs, and
pictures, all of which looked strangely familiar, and which on closer
inspection he recognized as belonging to the room which he had always
occupied at The Pines. He turned to Bennett, who was standing at a
little distance, ostensibly cleaning some harness, but quietly enjoying
the scene.

"Bennett, what does this mean?" he inquired. "Where are these goods
going?"

"To the camp, sir."

"Surely not to the mining camp, Bennett; you must be mistaken."

"No mistake about it, sir; they goes to Camp Bird to-morrow morning;
them's Mrs. Dean's orders."

Darrell was more touched than he cared to betray. He went at once to the
house, and in the hall, dim with the early twilight, was met by Mrs.
Dean herself.

"I'm sorry, Mr. Darrell," she began, "but you can't occupy your room
to-night; you'll have to take the one adjoining on the south. Your room
was torn up to-day, and we haven't got it put to rights yet."

"Mrs. Dean," Darrell answered, his voice slightly unsteady, "you are too
kind; it breaks a fellow all up and makes this sort of thing the
harder!"

Mrs. Dean turned on the light as though for a better understanding.

"I don't see any special kindness in turning you out of your room on
your last night here," she remarked, quietly, "but we couldn't get it
settled."

Darrell could not restrain a smile as he replied, "I'm afraid it will be
some time before it is settled with the furniture packed out there in
the stables."

"Have you been to the stables?" she exclaimed, in dismay.

A smile was sufficient answer.

"If that isn't too bad!" she continued; "I was going to have that wagon
sent ahead in the morning before you were up and have it for a surprise
when you got there, and now it's all spoiled. I declare, I'm too
disappointed to say a word!"

"But, Mrs. Dean," Darrell interposed, hastily, as she turned to leave,
"you need not feel like that; the surprise was just as genuine and as
pleasant as though it had been as you intended; besides, I can thank you
now, whereas I couldn't then."

"That's just what I didn't want, and don't want now," she answered,
quickly; "if there is anything I can do for you, God knows I'll do it
the same as though you were my own son, and I want no thanks for it,
either." And with these words she left the room before Darrell could
reply.

Everything that could be done to make the rooms look cheerful and
homelike as possible had been done for that night. The dining-room was
decorated with flowers, and when, after dinner, the family adjourned to
the sitting-room, a fire was burning in the grate, and around it had
been drawn the most comfortable seats in the room.

But to Darrell the extra touches of brightness and beauty seemed only to
emphasize the fact that this was the last night of anything like home
life that he would know for some time to come.

It had been agreed that he and Kate were to have some music that
evening, and on the piano he saw the violin which he had not used since
the summer's happy days. He lifted it with the tender, caressing manner
with which he always handled it, as though it were something living and
human. Turning it lovingly in his hands, he caught the gleam of
something in the fire-light, and, bending over it, saw a richly engraved
gold plate, on which he read the words:

     TO JOHN DARRELL
     A SOUVENIR OF "THE PINES"
     FROM "KATHIE"

A mist rose before his eyes--he could not see, he could not trust
himself to speak, but, raising the violin, his pent-up feelings burst
forth in a flood of liquid music of such commingled sweetness and
sadness as to hold his listeners entranced. Mr. Underwood, for once
forgetful of his pipe, looked into the fire with a troubled gaze; he
understood little of the power of expression, but even he comprehended
dimly the sorrow that surged and ebbed in those wild harmonies. Mrs.
Dean, her hands folded idly above her work, sat with eyes closed, a
solitary tear occasionally rolling down her cheek, while in the shadows
Kate, her face buried on Duke's head and neck, was sobbing quietly.

Gradually the wild strains subsided, as the summer tempest dies away
till nothing is heard but the patter of the rain-drops, and, after a few
bars from a love-song, a favorite of Kate's, the music glided into the
simple strains of "Home, Sweet Home." And as the oppressed and
overheated atmosphere is cleared by the brief storm, so the overwrought
feelings of those present were relieved by this little outburst of
emotion.

A pleasant evening followed, and, except that the "good-nights"
exchanged on parting were tenderer, more heartfelt than usual, there
were no indications that this was their last night together as a family
circle.

Darrell had been in his room but a short time, however, when he heard a
light tap at his door, and, opening it, Mrs. Dean entered.

"You seem like a son to me, Mr. Darrell," she said, with quiet dignity,
"so I have taken the liberty to come to your room for a few minutes the
same as I would to a son's."

"That is right, Mrs. Dean," Darrell replied, escorting her to a large
arm-chair; "my own mother could not be more welcome."

"You know us pretty well by this time, Mr. Darrell," she said, as she
seated herself, "and you know that we're not given to expressing our
feelings very much, but I felt that I couldn't let you go away without a
few words with you first. I sometimes think that those who can't express
themselves are the ones that feel the deepest, though I guess we often
get the credit of not having any feelings at all."

"If I ever had such an impression of you or your brother, I found out my
error long ago," Darrell remarked, gravely, as she paused.

"Yes, I think you understand us; I think you will understand me, Mr.
Darrell, when I say to you that I haven't felt anything so deeply in
years as I do your leaving us now--not so much the mere fact of your
going away as the real reason of your going. I felt bad when you left
for camp a year ago, but this is altogether different; then you felt,
and we felt, that you were one of us, that your home was with us, and I
hoped that as long as you remained in the West your home would be with
us. Now, although there is no change in our love for you, or yours for
us, I know that the place is no longer a home to you, that you do not
care to stay; and about the hardest part of it all is, that, knowing the
circumstances as I do, I myself would not ask you to stay."

"You seem to understand the situation, Mrs. Dean; how did you learn the
circumstances?" Darrell asked, wonderingly.

She regarded him a moment with a motherly smile. "Did you think I was
blind? I could see for myself. Katherine has told me nothing," she
added, in answer to the unspoken inquiry which she read in his eyes;
"she has told me no more than you, but I saw what was coming long before
either you or she realized it."

"Oh, Mrs. Dean, why didn't you warn me in time?" Darrell exclaimed.

"The time for warning was when you two first met," Mrs. Dean replied;
"for two as congenial to be thrown together so constantly would
naturally result just as it has; it is no more than was to be expected,
and neither of you can be blamed. And," she added, slowly, "that is not
the phase of the affair which I most regret. I think such love as you
two bear each other would work little harm or sorrow to either of you in
the end, if matters could only be left to take their own course. I may
as well tell you that I think no good will come of this scheme of
David's. Mr. Walcott is not a suitable man for Katherine, even if she
were heart free, and loving you as she does--as she always will, for I
understand the child--it would have been much better to have waited a
year or two; I have no doubt that everything would come out all right.
Of course, as I'm not her mother, I have no say in the matter and no
right to interfere; but mark my words: David will regret this, and at no
very distant day, either."

"I know that nothing but unhappiness can come of it for Kate, and that
is what troubles me far more than any sorrow of my own," said Darrell,
in a low voice.

"It will bring unhappiness and evil all around, but to no one so much as
David Underwood himself," said Mrs. Dean, impressively, as she rose.

"Mrs. Dean," said Darrell, springing quickly to his feet, "you don't
know the good this little interview has done me! I thank you for it and
for your sympathy from the bottom of my heart."

"I wish I could give you something more practical than sympathy," said
Mrs. Dean, with a smile, "and I will if I ever have the opportunity. And
one thing in particular I want to say to you, Mr. Darrell: so long as
you are in the West, whether your home is with us or not, I want you to
feel that you have a mother in me, and should you ever be sick or in
trouble and need a mother's care and love, no matter where you are, I
will come to you as I would to my own son."

They had reached the door; Darrell, too deeply moved for speech and
knowing her aversion to many words, bent over her and kissed her on the
forehead.

"Thank you, mother; good-night!" he said.

She turned and looked at him with glistening eyes, as she replied,
calmly,--

"Good-night, my son!"

The household was astir at an early hour the next morning. There were
forced smiles and some desultory conversation at the breakfast-table,
but it was a silent group which gathered outside in the early morning
sunlight as Darrell was about taking his departure. He dreaded the
parting, and, as he glanced at the faces of the waiting group, he
determined to make it as brief as possible for their sakes as well as
his own.

The heavy teams came slowly around from the stables, and behind them
came Trix, daintily picking her steps along the driveway. With a word or
two of instructions to the drivers Darrell sent the teams ahead; then,
having adjusted saddle and bridle to his satisfaction, he turned to Mr.
Underwood, who stood nearest.

"My boy," said the latter, extending his hand, "we hate to spare you
from the old home, but I don't know where I would have got a man to
take your place; with you up there I feel just as safe as though I were
there myself."

"Much obliged, Mr. Underwood," Darrell replied, looking straight into
the elder man's eyes; "I think you'll find me worthy of any trust you
may repose in me--at the camp or elsewhere."

"Every time, my boy, every time!" exclaimed the old gentleman, wringing
his hand.

Mrs. Dean's usually placid face was stern from her effort to repress her
feelings, but there was a glance of mother-love in her eyes and a slight
quivering of her lips as she bade him a quiet good-by.

But it was Kate's pale, sweet face that nearly broke his own composure
as he turned to her, last of all. Their hands clasped and they looked
silently into each other's eyes for an instant.

"Good-by, John; God bless you!" she said, in tones audible only to his
ear.

"God bless and help you, Kathie!" he replied, and turned quickly to Trix
waiting at his side.

"Look at Duke," said Kate, a moment later, as Darrell sprang into the
saddle; "he doesn't know what to make of it that you haven't bade him
good-by."

Duke, who had shown considerable excitement over the unusual
proceedings, had bounded to Kate's side as Darrell approached her,
expecting his usual recognition; not having received it, he sat
regarding Darrell with an evident sense of personal injury quite
pathetic.

Darrell looked at the drooping head and smiled. "Come, Duke," he said,
slowly starting down the driveway.

Kate bent quickly for a final caress. "Go on, Duke!" she whispered.

Nothing loath to follow Darrell, he bounded forward, but after a few
leaps, on discovering that his beloved mistress was not accompanying
them, he stopped, looking back in great perplexity. At a signal from her
and a word from Darrell he again started onward, but his backward
glances were more than Kate could bear, and she turned to go into the
house.

"What are you sending the dog after him for, anyway?" inquired her
father, himself somewhat puzzled.

"I have given Duke to Mr. Darrell, papa," she replied.

Something in the unnatural calmness of her tone startled him; he turned
to question her. She had gone, but in the glimpse which he had of her
face he read a little of the anguish which at that moment wrung her
young heart, and happening at the same time to catch his sister's eye,
he walked away, silent and uncomfortable.




_Chapter XX_

FORGING THE FETTERS


During the weeks immediately following Darrell's departure the daily
routine of life at The Pines continued in the accustomed channels, but
there was not a member of the family, including Mr. Underwood himself,
to whom it did not seem strangely empty, as though some essential
element were missing.

To Kate her present life, compared with the first months of her return
home, was like the narrow current creeping sluggishly beneath the icy
fetters of winter as compared with the same stream laughing and singing
on its way under summer skies. But she was learning the lesson that all
must learn; that the world sweeps relentlessly onward with no pause for
individual woe, and each must keep step in its ceaseless march, no
matter how weary the brain or how heavy the heart.

Walcott's visits continued with the same frequency, but he was less
annoying in his attentions than formerly. It had gradually dawned upon
him that Kate was no longer a child, but a woman; and a woman with a
will as indomitable as her father's once it was aroused. He was not
displeased at the discovery; on the contrary, he looked forward with all
the keener anticipation to the pleasure of what he mentally termed the
"taming" process, once she was fairly within his power. Meantime, he was
content to make a study of her, sitting evening after evening either in
conversation with her father or listening while she played and sang,
but always watching her every movement, scanning every play of her
features.

"A loose rein for the present," he would say to himself, with a smile;
"but by and by, my lady, you will find whether or no I am master!"

He seldom attempted now to draw her into a tête à tête conversation, but
finding her one evening sitting upon a low divan in one of the
bay-windows looking out into the moonlight, he seated himself beside her
and began one of his entertaining tales of travel. An hour or more
passed pleasantly, and Walcott inquired, casually,--

"By the way, Miss Underwood, what has become of my four-footed friend? I
have not seen him for three weeks or more, and his attentions to me were
so marked I naturally miss them."

"Duke is at the mining camp," Kate answered, with a faint smile.

Walcott raised his eyebrows incredulously. "Possible! With my other
admirer, Mr. Darrell?"

"He is with Mr. Darrell."

"Accept my gratitude, Miss Underwood, for having made my entrée to your
home much pleasanter, not to say safer."

"I neither claim nor accept your gratitude, Mr. Walcott," Kate replied,
with cool dignity, "since I did it simply out of regard for Duke's
welfare and not out of any consideration whatever for your wishes in the
matter."

"I might have known as much," said Walcott, with a mock sigh of
resignation, settling back comfortably among the pillows on the divan
and fixing his eyes on Kate's face; "I might have known that
consideration for any wish of mine could never by any chance be assigned
as the motive for an act of yours."

Kate made no reply, but the lines about her mouth deepened. For a moment
he watched her silently; then he continued slowly, in low, nonchalant
tones:

"I am positive that when I at last gain your consent to marry me,"--he
paused an instant to note the effect of his words, but there was not the
quiver of an eyelash on her part,--"even then, you will have the
audacity to tell me that you gave it for any other reason under heaven
than consideration for me or my wishes."

"Mr. Walcott," said Kate, facing him with sudden hauteur of tone and
manner, "you are correct. If ever I consent to marry you I can tell you
now as well as then my reason for doing so: it will be simply and solely
for my dear father's sake, for the love I bear him, out of consideration
for his wishes, and with no more thought of you than if you did not
exist."

Conflicting emotions filled Walcott's breast at these words, but he
preserved a calm, smiling exterior. He could not but admire Kate's
spirit; at the same time the thought flashed through his mind that this
apparent slip of a girl might prove rather difficult to "tame;" but he
reflected that the more difficult, the keener would be his enjoyment of
the final victory.

"A novel situation, surely!" he commented, with a low, musical laugh;
"decidedly unique!"

"But, my dear Miss Underwood," he continued, a moment later, "if your
love for your father and regard for his wishes are to constitute your
sole reasons for consenting to become my wife, why need you withhold
that consent longer? I am sure his wishes in the matter will remain
unchanged, as will also your love for him; why then should our marriage
be further delayed?"

"After what I have just told you, Mr. Walcott, do you still ask me to
be your wife?" Kate demanded, indignantly.

"I do, Miss Underwood; and, pardon me, I feel that you have trifled with
me long enough; I must have your answer."

She rose, drawing herself proudly to her full height.

"Take me to my father," she said, imperiously.

Walcott offered his arm, which she refused with a gesture of scorn, and
they proceeded to the adjoining room, where Mr. Underwood and his sister
were seated together before the fire. As Kate advanced towards her
father both looked up simultaneously, and each read in her white face
and proud bearing that a crisis was at hand. Mrs. Dean at once arose and
noiselessly withdrew from the room.

Walcott paused at a little distance from Mr. Underwood, assuming a
graceful attitude as he leaned languidly over the large chair just
vacated by Mrs. Dean, but Kate did not stop till she reached her
father's side, where she bowed coldly to Walcott to proceed with what he
had to say.

"Some time ago, Mr. Underwood," he began, smoothly and easily, "I asked
you for your daughter's hand in marriage, and you honored me with your
consent. Since that time I have paid my addresses to Miss Underwood in
so marked a manner as to leave her no room for doubt or misunderstanding
regarding my intentions, although, finding that she was not inclined to
look upon me with favor, I have hitherto refrained from pressing my
suit. Feeling now that I have given her abundance of time I have this
evening asked her to become my wife, and insisted that I was entitled to
a decision. Instead, however, of giving me a direct answer, she has
suggested that we refer the matter to yourself."

"How is this, Kate?" her father asked, not unkindly; "I supposed you and
I had settled this matter long ago."

Her voice was clear, her tones unfaltering, as she replied: "Before
giving my answer I wanted to ask you, papa, for the last time, whether,
knowing the circumstances as you do and how I regard Mr. Walcott, it is
still your wish that I marry him?"

"It is; and I expect my child to be governed by my wishes in this matter
rather than by her own feelings."

"Have I ever gone contrary to your wishes, papa, or disobeyed you?"

"No, my child, no!"

"Then I shall not attempt it at this late day. I only wanted to be sure
that this was still your wish."

"I desire it above all things," said Mr. Underwood, delighted to find
Kate so ready to accede to his wishes, rising and taking her hand in
his; "and the day that I see my little girl settled in the home which
she will receive as a wedding-gift from her old father will be the
proudest and happiest day of my life."

Kate smiled sadly. "No home can ever seem to me like The Pines, papa,
but I appreciate your kindness, and I want you to know that I am taking
this step solely for your happiness."

She then turned, facing Walcott, who advanced slightly, while Mr.
Underwood made a movement as though to place her hand in his.

"Not yet, papa," she said, gently; then, addressing Walcott, she
continued:

"Mr. Walcott, this must be my answer, since you insist upon having one:
Out of love for him who has been both father and mother to me, out of
reverence for his gray hairs frosted by the sorrows of earlier years,
out of regard for his wishes, which have always been my law,--for his
sake only,--I consent to become your wife upon one condition."

"Name it," Walcott replied.

"There can be no love between us, either in our engagement or our
marriage, for, as I have told you, I can never love you, and you
yourself are incapable of love in its best sense; you have not even the
slightest knowledge of what it is. For this reason any token of love
between us would be only a mockery, a farce, and true wedded love is
something too holy, too sacred, to be travestied in any such manner. I
consent to our marriage, therefore, only upon this condition: that we
henceforth treat each other simply with kindness and courtesy; that no
expressions of affection or endearment are to be used by either of us to
the other, and that no word or sign of love ever pass between us."

"Kate," interposed her father, sternly, "this is preposterous! I cannot
allow such absurdity;" but Walcott silenced him with a deprecatory wave
of his hand, and, taking Kate's hand in his, replied, with smiling
indifference,--

"I accept the condition imposed by Miss Underwood, since it is no more
unique than the entire situation, and I congratulate her upon her
decided originality. I suppose," he added, addressing Kate, at the same
time producing a superb diamond ring, "you will not object to wearing
this?"

"I yield that much to conventionality," she replied, allowing him to
place it on her finger; "there is no need to advertise the situation
publicly; besides, it is a fitting symbol of my future fetters."

"Conventionality, I believe, would require that it be placed on your
hand with a kiss and some appropriate bit of sentiment, but since that
sort of thing is tabooed between us, we will have to dispense with that
part of the ceremony."

Then turning to Mr. Underwood, who stood looking on frowningly, somewhat
troubled by the turn matters had taken, Walcott added, playfully,--

"According to the usual custom, I believe the next thing on the
programme is for you to embrace us and give us a father's blessing, but
my lady might not approve of anything so commonplace."

Before her father could reply Kate spoke for him, glancing at him with
an affectionate smile:

"Papa is not one of the demonstrative sort, and he and I need no
demonstration of our love for each other; do we, dear?"

"No, child, we understand each other," said her father, reseating
himself, with Kate in her accustomed place on the arm of his chair,
while Walcott took the large chair on the other side of the fire; "and
you neither of you need any assurance of my good wishes or good
intentions towards you; but," he continued, doubtfully, shaking his
head, "I don't quite like the way you've gone about this business,
Puss."

"It was the only way for me, papa," Kate answered, gravely and
decidedly.

"I admit," said Walcott, "it will be quite a departure from the mode of
procedure ordinarily laid down for newly engaged and newly wedded
couples; but really, come to think it over, I am inclined to think that
Miss Underwood's proposition will save us an immense amount of boredom
which is the usual concomitant of engagements and honeymoons. That sort
of thing, you know," he added, his lip curling just perceptibly, "is apt
to get a little monotonous after a while."

Kate, watching him from under level brows, saw the slight sneer and
inwardly rejoiced at the stand she had taken.

"Well," said Mr. Underwood, resignedly, "fix it up between you any way
to suit yourselves; but for heaven's sake, don't do anything to cause
comment or remarks!"

"Papa, you can depend on me not to make myself conspicuous in any way,"
Kate replied, with dignity. "What I have said to-night was said simply
to let you and Mr. Walcott know just where I stand, and just what you
may, and may not, expect of me; but this is only between us three, and
you can rest assured that I shall never wear my heart upon my sleeve or
take the public into my confidence regarding my home life."

"I think myself you need have no fear on that score, Mr. Underwood,"
Walcott remarked, with a smile of amusement; "I believe Miss Underwood
is entirely capable of carrying out to perfection any rôle she may
assume, and if she chooses to take the part of leading lady in the
little comedy of 'The Model Husband and Wife, I shall be only too
delighted to render her any assistance within my power."

As Walcott bade Kate good-night at a late hour he inquired, "What do you
think of the little comedy I suggested to-night for our future line of
action? Does it meet with your approval?"

She was quick to catch the significance of the question, and, looking
him straight in the eyes, she replied, calmly,--

"It will answer as well as any, I suppose; but it has in it more of the
elements of tragedy than of comedy."




_Chapter XXI_

TWO CRIMES BY THE SAME HAND


At Walcott's request the date of the wedding was set early in January,
he having announced that business would call him to the South the first
week in December for about a month, and that he wished the wedding to
take place immediately upon his return.

The announcement of the engagement and speedily approaching marriage of
the daughter of D. K. Underwood to his junior partner caused a ripple of
excitement throughout the social circles of Ophir and Galena. Though
little known, Walcott was quite popular. It was therefore generally
conceded that the shrewd "mining king," as Mr. Underwood was denominated
in that region, had selected a party in every way eligible as the future
husband of the sole heiress of his fortune. Kate received the
congratulations showered upon her with perfect equanimity, but with a
shade of quiet reserve which effectually distanced all undue familiarity
or curiosity.

Through the daily paper which found its way to the mining camp Darrell
received his first news of Kate's engagement. It did not come as a
surprise, however; he knew it was inevitable; he even drew a sigh of
relief that the blow had fallen, for a burden is far more easily borne
as an actual reality than by anticipation, and applied himself with an
almost dogged persistency to his work.

The winter set in early and with unusual severity. The snowfall in the
mountains was heavier than had been known in years. Much of the time
the canyon road was impassable, making it impracticable for Darrell to
visit The Pines with any frequency, even had he wished to do so.

The weeks passed, and ere he was aware the holidays were at hand. By
special messenger came a little note from Kate informing him of
Walcott's absence and begging him to spend Christmas at the old home.
There had been a lull of two or three days in the storm, the messenger
reported the road somewhat broken, and early on the morning preceding
Christmas the trio, Darrell, Duke, and Trix, started forth, and, after a
twelve hours' siege, arrived at The Pines wet, cold, and thoroughly
exhausted, but all joyfully responsive to the welcome awaiting them.

Christmas dawned bright and clear; tokens of love and good will abounded
on every side, but at an early hour news came over the wires which
shocked and saddened all who heard, particularly the household at The
Pines. There had been a hold-up on the west-bound express the preceding
night, a few miles from Galena, in which the mail and express had been
robbed, and the express clerk, a brave young fellow who stanchly refused
to open the safe or give the combination, had been fatally stabbed. It
was said to be without doubt the work of the same band that had
conducted the hold-up in which Harry Whitcomb had lost his life, as it
was characterized by the same boldness of plan and cleverness of
execution.

The affair brought back so vividly to Mr. Underwood and the family the
details of Harry's death that it cast a shadow over the Christmas
festivities, which seemed to deepen as the day wore on. Outside, too,
gathering clouds, harbingers of coming storm, added to the general
gloom.

It was with a sense of relief that Darrell set out at an early hour the
following morning for the camp. He realized as never before that the
place teemed with painful memories whose very sweetness tortured his
soul until he almost wished that the months since his coming to The
Pines might be wrapped in the same oblivion which veiled his life up to
that period. He was glad to escape from its depressing influence and to
return to the camp with its routine of work and study.

This second winter of Darrell's life at camp was far more normal and
healthful than the first. His love and sympathy for Kate had
unconsciously drawn him out of himself, making him less mindful of his
own sorrow and more susceptible to the sufferings of others. To the men
at the camp he was far different, interesting himself in their welfare
in numerous ways where before he had ignored them. The unusual severity
of the winter had caused some sickness among them, and it was nothing
uncommon for Darrell to go of an evening to the miners' quarters with
medicines, newspapers, and magazines for the sick and convalescent.

He was returning from one of these expeditions late one evening about
ten days after Christmas, accompanied by the collie. It had been snowing
lightly and steadily all day and the snow was still falling. Darrell was
whistling softly to himself, and Duke, who showed a marvellous
adaptation to Darrell's varying moods, catching the cue for his own
conduct, began to plunge into the freshly fallen snow, wheeling and
darting swiftly towards Darrell as though challenging him to a
wrestling-match. Darrell gratified his evident wish and they tumbled
promiscuously in the snow, emerging at length from a big drift near the
office, their coats white, Duke barking with delight, and Darrell
laughing like a school-boy.

Shaking themselves, they entered the office, but no sooner had they
stepped within than the collie bounded to the door of the next room
where he began a vigorous sniffing and scratching, accompanied by a
series of short barks. As Darrell, somewhat puzzled by his actions,
opened the door, he saw a figure seated by the fire, which rose and
turned quickly, revealing to his astonished gaze the tall form and
strong, sweet face of John Britton.

For a moment the two men stood with clasped hands, looking into each
other's eyes with a satisfaction too deep for words.

After an affectionate scrutiny of his young friend Mr. Britton resumed
his seat, remarking,--

"You are looking well--better than I have ever seen you; and I was glad
to hear that laughter outside; it had the right ring to it."

"Duke was responsible for that," Darrell answered, with a smiling glance
at the collie who had stationed himself by the fire and near Mr.
Britton; "he challenged me to wrestle with him, and got rather the worst
of it."

A moment later, having divested himself of his great coat, he drew a
second seat before the fire, saying,--

"You evidently knew where to look for me?"

"Yes, your last letter, which, by the way, followed me for nearly six
weeks before reaching me, apprised me of your return to the camp. I was
somewhat surprised, too, after you had established yourself so well in
town."

"It was best for me--and for others," Darrell answered; then, noting the
inquiry in his friend's eyes, he added:

"It is a long story, but it will keep; there will be plenty of time for
that later. Tell me of yourself first. For two months I have hungered
for word from you, and now I simply want to listen to you a while."

Mr. Britton smiled. "I owe you an apology, but you know I am a poor
correspondent at best, and of late business has called me here and there
until I scarcely knew one day where I would be the next; consequently I
have received my mail irregularly and have been irregular myself in
writing."

Darrell's face grew tender, for he knew it was not business alone which
drove his friend from place to place, but the old pain which found
relief only in ceaseless activity and an equally unceasing beneficence.
He well knew that many of his friend's journeys were purely of a
philanthropic nature, and he remarked, with a peculiar smile,--

"Your travels always remind me very forcibly of the journey of the good
Samaritan; when he met a case of suffering on the way he was not the one
to 'pass by on the other side;' nor are you."

"Perhaps," said Mr. Britton, gravely, "he had found, as others have
since, that pouring oil and wine into his neighbor's wounds was the
surest method of assuaging the pain in some secret wound of his own."

Darrell watched his friend closely while he gave a brief account of his
recent journeys along the western coast. Never before had he seen the
lines of suffering so marked upon the face beside him as that night.
Something evidently had reopened the old wound, causing it to throb
anew.

"I need not ask what has brought you back into the mountains at this
time of year and in this storm," Darrell remarked, as his friend
concluded.

For answer Mr. Britton drew from his pocket an envelope which Darrell
at once recognized as a counterpart of one which had come to him some
weeks before, but which he had laid away unopened, knowing only too well
its contents.

"I am particularly glad, for Miss Underwood's sake, that you are here,"
he said; "she feared you might not come, and it worried her."

"Which accounts for the importunate little note which accompanied the
invitation," said Mr. Britton, with a half-smile; "but I would have made
it a point to be present in any event; why did she doubt my coming?"

"Because of the season, I suppose, and the unusual storms; then, too,"
Darrell spoke with some hesitation, "she told me she believed you had a
sort of aversion to weddings."

"She was partly right," Mr. Britton said, after a pause; "I have not
been present at a wedding ceremony for more than twenty-five years--not
since my own marriage," he added, slowly, in a low tone, as though
making a confession.

Darrell's heart throbbed painfully; it was the first allusion he had
ever heard the other make to his own past, and from his tone and manner
Darrell knew that he himself had unwittingly touched the great, hidden
sorrow in his friend's life.

"Forgive me!" he said, with the humility and simplicity of a child.

"I have nothing to forgive," Mr. Britton replied, gently, fixing his
eyes with a look of peculiar affection upon Darrell's face. "You know
more now, my son, than the whole world knows or has known in all these
years; and some day in the near future you shall know all, because, for
some inexplicable reason, you, out of the whole world, seem nearest to
me."

A few moments later he resumed, with more of his usual manner, "I am not
quite myself to-night. The events of the last few days have rather upset
me, and," with one of his rare smiles, "I have come to you to get
righted."

"To me?" Darrell exclaimed.

"Yes; why not?"

"I am but your pupil,--one who is just beginning to look above his own
selfish sorrows only through the lessons you have taught him."

"You over-estimate the little I have tried to do for you; but were it
even as you say, I would come to you and to no one else. To whom did the
Divine Master himself turn for human sympathy in his last hours of grief
and suffering but to his little band of pupils--his disciples? And in
proportion as they had learned of Him and imbibed His spirit, in just
that proportion could they enter into his feelings and minister to his
soul."

Mr. Britton had withdrawn the cards from the envelope and was regarding
them thoughtfully.

"The receipt of those bits of pasteboard," he said, slowly, "unmanned me
more than anything that has occurred in nearly a score of years. They
called up long-forgotten scenes,--little pathetic, heart-rending
memories which I thought buried long ago. I don't mind confessing to
you, my boy, that for a while I was unnerved. It did not seem as though
I could ever bring myself to hear again the music of wedding-bells and
wedding-marches, to listen to the old words of the marriage service. But
for the sake of one who has seemed almost as my own child I throttled
those feelings and started for the mountains, resolved that no
selfishness of mine should cloud her happiness on her wedding day. I
came, to find, what I would never have believed possible, that my old
friend would sacrifice his child's happiness, all that is sweetest and
holiest in her life, to gratify his own ambition. I cannot tell you the
shock it was to me. D. K. Underwood and I have been friends for many
years, but that did not prevent my talking plainly with him--so plainly
that perhaps our friendship may never be the same again. But it was of
no avail, and the worst is, he has persuaded himself that he is acting
for her good, when it is simply for the gratification of his own pride.
I could not stay there; the very atmosphere seemed oppressive; so I came
up here for a day or two, as I told you, to get righted."

"And you came to me to be righted," Darrell said, musingly; "'Can the
blind lead the blind?'"

Mr. Britton was quick to catch the significance of he other's query.

"Yes, John," he answered, covering Darrell's hand with his own; "I came
to you for the very reason that your hurt is far deeper than mine."

Under the magnetism of that tone and touch Darrell calmly and in few
words told his story and Kate's,--the story of their love and brief
happiness, and of the wretchedness which followed.

"For a while I constantly reproached myself for having spoken to her of
love," he said, in conclusion; "for having awakened her love, as I
thought, by my own; but gradually I came to see that she had loved me,
as I had her, unconsciously, almost from our first meeting, and that the
awakening must in any event have come sooner or later to each of us.
Then it seemed as though my suffering all converged in sorrow for her,
that her life, instead of being gladdened by love, should be saddened
and marred, perhaps wrecked, by it."

"Love works strange havoc with human lives sometimes," Mr. Britton
remarked, reflectively, as Darrell paused.

"I was tempted at times," Darrell continued, "as I thought of what was
in store for her, to rescue her at any cost; tempted to take her and go
with her to the ends of the earth, if necessary; anywhere, to save her
from the life she dreads."

"Thank God that you did not, my son!" Mr. Britton exclaimed, strangely
agitated by Darrell's words; "you do not know what the cost might have
been in the end; what bitter remorse, what agony of ceaseless regret!"

He stopped abruptly, and again Darrell felt that he had looked for an
instant into those depths so sacredly guarded from the eyes of the
world.

"You did well to leave as you did," Mr. Britton said, after a moment's
silence, in which he had regained his composure.

"I had to; I should have done something desperate if I had remained
there much longer."

Darrell spoke quietly, but it was the quiet of suppressed passion.

"It was better so--better for you both," Mr. Britton continued; "when we
find ourselves powerless to save our loved ones from impending trouble,
all that is left us is to help them bear that trouble as best we may.
The best help you can give Kate now is to take yourself as completely as
possible out of her life. How you can best help her later time alone
will show."

A long silence followed, while both watched the flickering flames and
listened to the crooning of the wind outside. When at length they spoke
it was on topics of general interest; the outlook at the mining camp,
the latest news in the town below, till their talk at last drifted to
the recent hold-up.

"A dastardly piece of work!" exclaimed Mr. Britton. "The death of that
young express clerk was in some ways even sadder than that of Harry
Whitcomb. I knew him well; the only child of a widowed mother; a poor
boy who, by indomitable energy and unswerving integrity, had just
succeeded in securing the position which cost him his life. Two such
brutal, cowardly murders ought to arouse the people to such systematic,
concerted action as would result in the final arrest and conviction of
the murderer."

"It is the general opinion that both were committed by one and the same
party," Darrell remarked, as his friend paused.

"Undoubtedly both were the work of the same hand, in all probability
that of the leader himself. He is a man capable of any crime, probably
guilty of nearly every crime that could be mentioned, and his men are
mere tools in his hands. He exerts a strange power over them and they
obey him, knowing that their lives would pay the forfeit for
disobedience. Human life is nothing to him, and any one who stood in the
way of the accomplishment of his purposes would simply go the way those
two poor fellows have gone."

"Why, do you know anything regarding this man?" Darrell asked in
surprise.

"Only so far as I have made a study of him and his methods, aided by
whatever information I could gather from time to time concerning him."

"Surely, you are not a detective!" Darrell exclaimed; "you spoke like
one just now."

"Not professionally," his friend answered, with a smile; "though I have
often assisted in running down criminals. I have enough of the hound
nature about me, however, that when a scent is given me I delight in
following the trail till I run my game to cover, as I hope some day to
run this man to cover," he added, with peculiar earnestness.

"But how did you ever gain so much knowledge of him? To every one else
he seems an utter mystery."

"Partly, as I said, through a study of him and his methods, and partly
from facts which I learned from one of the band who was fatally shot a
few years ago in a skirmish between the brigands and a posse of
officials. The man was deserted by his associates and was brought to
town and placed in a hospital. I did what I could to make the poor
fellow comfortable, with the result that he became quite communicative
with me, and, while in no way betraying his confederates, he gave me
much interesting information regarding the band and its leader. It is a
thoroughly organized body of men, bound together by the most fearful
oaths, possessing a perfect system of signals and passwords, and with a
retreat in the mountains, known as the 'Pocket,' so inaccessible to any
but themselves that no one as yet has been able even to definitely
locate it--a sort of basin walled about by perpendicular rocks. The
leader is a man of mixed blood, who has travelled in all countries and
knows many dark secrets, and whose power lies mainly in the mystery with
which he surrounds himself. No one knows who he is, but many of his men
believe him to be the very devil personified."

"But how can you or any one else hope to run down a man with such
powerful followers and with a hiding-place so inaccessible?" Darrell
inquired.

"From a remark inadvertently dropped, I was led to infer that this man
spends comparatively little time with the band. He communicates with
them, directs them, and personally conducts any especially bold or
difficult venture; but most of the time he is amid far different
surroundings, leading an altogether different life."

"One of those men with double lives," Darrell commented.

Mr. Britton bowed in assent.

"But if that were so," Darrell persisted, his interest thoroughly
aroused, as much by Mr. Britton's manner as by his words, "in the event,
say, of your meeting him, how would you be able to recognize or identify
him? Have you any clew to his identity?"

"Years ago," said Mr. Britton, slowly, "I formed the habit of studying
people; at first as I met them; later as I heard or read of them. Facts
gathered here and there concerning a person's life I put together, piece
by piece, studying his actions and the probable motives governing those
actions, until I had a mental picture of the real man, the 'ego' that
constitutes the foundation of the character of every individual. Having
that fixed in my mind I next strove to form an idea of the exterior
which that particular 'ego' would gradually build about himself through
his habits of thought and speech and action. In this way, by a careful
study of a man's life, I can form something of an idea of his
appearance. I have often put this to the test by visiting various
penitentiaries in order to meet some of the noted criminals of whose
careers I had made a study, and invariably, in expression, in voice and
manner, in gait and bearing, in the hundred and one little indices by
which the soul betrays itself, I have found them as I had mentally
portrayed them."

Mr. Britton had risen while speaking and was walking back and forth
before the fire.

"I see!" Darrell exclaimed; "and you have formed a mental portrait of
this man by which you expect to recognize and identify him?"

"I am satisfied that I would have no difficulty in recognizing him," Mr.
Britton replied, with peculiar emphasis on the last words; "the work of
identification,"--he paused in front of Darrell, looking him earnestly
in the face,--"that, I hope, will one day be yours."

"Mine!" exclaimed Darrell. "How so? I do not understand."

"Mr. Underwood has told me that soon after your arrival at The Pines and
just before you became delirious, there was something on your mind in
connection with the robbery and Whitcomb's death which you wished to
tell him but were unable to recall; and both he and his sister have said
that often during your delirium you would mutter, 'That face! I can
never forget it; it will haunt me as long as I live!' It has always been
my belief that amidst the horrors of the scene you witnessed that night,
you in some way got sight of the murderer's face, which impressed you so
strongly that it haunted you even in your delirium. It is my hope that
with the return of memory there will come a vision of that face
sufficiently clear that you will be able to identify it should you meet
it, as I believe you will."

Darrell scrutinized his friend closely before replying, noting his
evident agitation.

"You have already met this man and recognized him!" he exclaimed.

"Possibly!" was the only reply.




_Chapter XXII_

THE FETTERS BROKEN


Early on the morning of the third day after Mr. Britton's arrival at
camp he and Darrell set forth for The Pines. But little snow had fallen
within the last two days, and the trip was made without much difficulty,
though progress was slow. Late in the day, as they neared The Pines, the
clouds, which for hours had been more or less broken, suddenly
dispersed, and the setting sun sank in a flood of gold and crimson light
which gave promise of glorious weather for the morrow.

Arriving at the house, they found it filled with guests invited to the
wedding from different parts of the State, the rooms resounding with
light badinage and laughter, the very atmosphere charged with excitement
as messengers came and went and servants hurried to and fro, busied with
preparations for the following day.

Kate herself hastened forward to meet them, a trifle pale, but calm and
wearing the faint, inscrutable smile which of late was becoming habitual
with her. At sight of Darrell and his friend, however, her face lighted
with the old-time, sunny smile and her cheeks flushed with pleasure. She
bestowed upon Mr. Britton the same affectionate greeting with which she
had been accustomed to meet him since her childhood's days. He was
visibly affected, and though he returned her greeting, kissing her on
brow and cheek, he was unable to speak. Her color deepened and her eyes
grew luminous as she turned to welcome Darrell, but she only said,--

"I am inexpressibly glad that you came. It will be good to feel there is
one amid all the crowd who knows."

"He knows also, Kathie," Darrell replied, in low tones, indicating Mr.
Britton with a slight motion of his head.

"Does he know all?" she asked, quickly.

"Yes; I thought you could have no objection."

"No," she answered, after a brief pause; "I am glad that it is so."

There was no opportunity for further speech, as Mr. Underwood came
forward to welcome his old friend and Darrell, and they were hurried off
to their rooms to prepare for dinner.

Mr. Underwood was not a man to do things by halves, and the elaborate
but informal dinner to which he and his guests sat down was all that
could be desired as a gastronomic success. He himself, despite his
brusque manners, was a genial host, and Walcott speedily ingratiated
himself into the favor of the guests by his quiet, unobtrusive
attentions, his punctilious courtesy to each and all alike.

Darrell and his friend felt ill at ease and out of place amid the gayety
that filled the house that evening, and at an early hour they retired to
their rooms.

"It is awful!" Darrell exclaimed, as they stood for a moment together at
the door of his room listening to the sounds of merriment from below;
"it is all so hollow, such a mockery; it seems like dancing over a
hidden sepulchre!"

"And we are to stand by to-morrow and witness this farce carried out to
the final culmination!" Mr. Britton commented, in low tones; "it is
worse than a farce,--it is a crime! My boy, how will you be able to
stand it?" he suddenly inquired.

Darrell turned away abruptly. "I could not stand it; I would not attempt
it, except that my presence will comfort and help her," he answered. And
so they parted for the night.

The following morning dawned clear and cloudless, the spotless, unbroken
expanse of snow gleaming in the sunlight as though strewn with myriads
of jewels; it seemed as if Earth herself had donned her bridal array in
honor of the occasion.

"An ideal wedding-day!" was the universal exclamation; and such it was.

The wedding was to take place at noon. A little more than an hour before
the bridal party was to leave the house Darrell was walking up and down
the double libraries upstairs, whither he had been summoned by a note
from Kate, begging him to await her there.

His thoughts went back to that summer night less than six months gone,
when he had waited her coming in those very rooms. Not yet six months,
and he seemed to have lived years since then! He recalled her as she
appeared before him that night in all the grace and witchery of lovely
maidenhood just opening into womanhood. How beautiful, how joyous she
had been! without a thought of sorrow, and now----

A faint sound like the breath of the wind through the leaves roused him,
and Kate stood before him once more. Kate in her bridal robes, their
shimmering folds trailing behind her like the gleaming foam in the wake
of a ship on a moonlit sea, while her veil, like a filmy cloud,
enveloped her from head to foot.

There was a moment of silence in which Darrell studied the face before
him; the same, yet not the same, as on that summer night. The childlike
naïveté, the charming piquancy, had given place to a sweet seriousness,
but it was more tender, more womanly, more beautiful.

She came a step nearer, and, raising her clasped hands, placed them
within Darrell's.

"I felt that I must see you once more, John," she said, in the low,
sweet tones that always thrilled his very soul; "there is something I
wish to say to you, if I can only make my meaning clear, and I feel sure
you will understand me. I want to pledge to you, John, for time and for
eternity, my heart's best and purest love. Though forced into this union
with a man whom I can never love, yet I will be true as a wife; God
knows I would not be otherwise; that is farthest from my thoughts. But I
have learned much within the past few months, and I have learned that
there is a love far above all passion and sensuality; a love tender as a
wife's, pure as a mother's, and lasting as eternity itself. Such love I
pledge you, John Darrell. Do you understand me?"

As she raised her eyes to his it seemed to Darrell that he was looking
into the face of one of the saints whom the old masters loved to portray
centuries ago, so spiritual was it, so devoid of everything of earth!

"Kathie, darling," he said, clasping her hands tenderly, "I do
understand, and, thank God, I believe I am able to reciprocate your love
with one as chastened and pure. When I left The Pines last fall I did so
because I could not any longer endure to be near you, loving you as I
did. I felt in some blind, unreasoning way that it was wrong, and yet I
knew that to cease to love you was an impossibility. But in the solitude
of the mountains God showed me a better way. He showed me the true
meaning of those words, 'In the resurrection they neither marry nor are
given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven.' Those words
had always seemed to me austere and cold, as though they implied that
our poor love would be superseded by higher attributes possessed by the
angelic hosts, of which we knew nothing. Now I know that they mean that
our human love shall be refined from all the dross of earthly passion,
purified and exalted above mortal conception. I prayed that my love for
you might be in some such measure refined and purified, and I know that
prayer has been answered. I pledge you that love, Kathie; a love that
will never wrong you even in thought; that you can trust in all the days
to come as ready to defend or protect you if necessary, and as always
seeking your best and highest happiness."

"Thank you, John," she said, and bowed her head above their clasped
hands for a moment.

When she raised her head her eyes were glistening. "We need not be
afraid or ashamed to acknowledge love such as ours," she said, proudly;
"and with the assurance you have given me I shall have strength and
courage, whatever may come. I must go," she added, lifting her face to
his; "I want your kiss now, John, rather than amid all the meaningless
kisses that will be given me after the ceremony."

Their lips met in a lingering kiss, then she silently withdrew from the
room.

As she crossed the hall Walcott suddenly brushed past her breathlessly,
without seeing her, and ran swiftly downstairs. His evident excitement
caused her to pause for an instant; as she did, she heard him exclaim,
in a low, angry tone and with an oath,--

"You dog! What brings you here? How dare you come here?"

There came a low reply in Spanish, followed by a few quick, sharp words
from Walcott in the same tongue, but which by their inflection Kate
understood to be an exclamation and a question.

Her curiosity aroused, she noiselessly descended to the first landing,
and, leaning over the balustrade, saw a small man, with dark olive skin,
standing close to Walcott, with whom he was talking excitedly. He spoke
rapidly in Spanish. Kate caught only one word, "Señora," as he handed a
note to Walcott, at the same time pointing backward over his shoulder
towards the entrance. Kate saw Walcott grow pale as he read the missive,
then, with a muttered curse, he started for the door, followed by the
other.

Quickly descending to the next landing, where there was an alcove window
looking out upon the driveway, Kate could see a closed carriage standing
before the entrance, and Walcott, holding the door partially open,
talking with some one inside. The colloquy was brief, and, as Walcott
stepped back from the carriage, the smaller man, who had been standing
at a little distance, sprang in hastily. As he swung the door open for
an instant Kate had a glimpse of a woman on the rear seat, dressed in
black and heavily veiled. As the man closed the door Walcott stepped to
the window for a word or two, then turned towards the house, and the
carriage rolled rapidly down the driveway. Kate slowly ascended the
stairs, listening for Walcott, who entered the house, but, instead of
coming upstairs, passed through the lower hall, going directly to a
private room of Mr. Underwood's in which he received any who happened to
call at the house on business.

Kate went to her room, her pulse beating quickly. She felt intuitively
that something was wrong; that here was revealed a phase of Walcott's
personality which she in her innocence had not considered, had not even
suspected. She knew that her father believed him to be a moral man, and
hitherto she had regarded the lack of affinity between herself and him
as due to a sort of mental disparity--a lack of affiliation in thought
and taste. Now the conviction flashed upon her that the disparity was a
moral one. She recalled the sense of loathing with which she
instinctively shrank from his touch; she understood it now. And within
two hours she was to have married this man! Never!

Passing a large mirror, she paused and looked at the reflection there.
Was her soul, its purity and beauty symbolized by her very dress, to be
united to that other soul in its grossness and deformity? Her cheek
blanched with horror at the thought. No! that fair body should perish
first, rather than soul or body ever be contaminated by his touch!

Her decision was taken from that moment, and it was irrevocable.
Nothing--not even her father's love or anger, his wishes or his
commands--could turn her now, for, as he himself boasted, his own blood
flowed within her veins.

Swiftly she disrobed, tearing the veil in her haste and throwing the
shimmering white garments to one side as though she hated the sight of
them. Taking from her jewel casket the engagement ring which had been
laid aside for the wedding ceremony, she quickly shut it within its own
case, to be returned as early as possible to the giver; it seemed to
burn her fingers like living fire.

A few moments later her aunt, entering her room, found her dressed in
one of her favorite house gowns,--a camel's hair of creamy white. She
looked at Kate, then at the discarded robes on a couch near by, and
stopped speechless for an instant, then stammered,--

"Katherine, child, what does this mean?"

"It means, auntie," said Kate, putting her arms about her aunt's neck,
"that there will be no wedding and no bride to-day."

Then, looking her straight in the eyes, she added: "Really, auntie, deep
down in your heart, aren't you glad of it?"

Mrs. Dean gasped, then replied, slowly, "Yes; it will make me very glad
if you do not have to marry that man; but, Katherine, I don't
understand; what will your father say?"

Before Kate could reply there was a heavy knock at the door, which Mrs.
Dean answered. She came back looking rather frightened.

"Your father wishes to see you, Katherine, in your library. Something
must have happened; he looks excited and worried. I don't know what
he'll say to you in that dress."

"I'm not afraid," Kate replied, brightly.

A moment later she entered the room where less than half an hour before
she had left Darrell. Mr. Underwood was walking up and down. As Kate
entered he turned towards her with a look of solicitude, which quickly
changed to one of surprise, tinged with anger.

"What is the meaning of this?" he demanded, looking at his watch; "it is
within an hour of the time set for your wedding; you don't look much
like a bride. Do you expect to be married in that dress?"

"I am not to be married to-day, papa; nor any other day to Mr. Walcott,"
Kate answered, calmly.

"What!" he exclaimed, scarcely comprehending the full import of her
words; "isn't the matter bad enough as it is without your making it
worse by any foolish talk or actions?"

"I don't understand you, papa; to what do you refer?"

"Why, Mr. Walcott has just been called out of town by news that his
father is lying at the point of death; it is doubtful whether he will
live till his son can reach him. He has to take the first train south
which leaves within half an hour; otherwise, he would have waited for
the ceremony to be performed."

"Did he tell you that?" Kate asked, with intense scorn.

"Certainly, and he left his farewells for you, as he hadn't time even to
stop to see you."

"It is well that he didn't attempt it," Kate replied, with spirit; "I
would have told him to his face that he lied."

"What do you mean by such language?" her father demanded, angrily; "do
you doubt his word to me?"

"I haven't a doubt that he was called away suddenly, but I saw him when
he received the message, and he didn't appear like a man called by
sickness. He was terribly excited,--so excited he did not even see me
when he passed me; and he was angry, for he cursed both the message and
the man who brought it."

"Excited? Naturally; he was excited in talking with me, and his anger,
no doubt, was over the postponement of the wedding. You show yourself
very foolish in getting angry in turn. This is a devilishly awkward
affair, though, thank heaven, there's no disgrace or scandal attached to
it, and we must make the best we can of it. I have already sent
messengers to the church to disperse the guests as they arrive, and have
also sent a statement of the facts to the different papers, so there
will be no garbled accounts or misstatements to-morrow morning."

"Father," said Kate, drawing herself up with new dignity as he paused,
"I want you to understand that this is no childish anger or pique on my
part. I have not told all that I saw, nor is it necessary at present;
but I saw enough that my eyes are opened to his real character. I want
you to understand that I will never marry him! I will die first!"

Her father's face grew dark with anger at her words, but the eyes
looking fearlessly into his own never quailed. Perhaps he recognized his
own spirit, for he checked the wrathful words he was about to speak and
merely inquired,--

"Are you going to make a fool of yourself and involve this affair in a
scandal, or will you allow it to pass quietly and with no unpleasant
notoriety?"

"You can dispose of it among outsiders as you please, papa, but I want
you to understand my decision in this matter, and that it is
irrevocable."

"Until you come to your senses!" he retorted, and left the room.

With comparatively little excitement the guests dispersed, and no one,
not even Darrell or Mr. Britton, knew aught beyond the statement made by
Mr. Underwood.

Some particular friends of Kate's, living in a remote part of the State,
thinking it might be rather embarrassing for her to remain in Ophir,
invited her to their home for two or three months, and she, realizing
that she had incurred her father's displeasure, gladly accepted.

The next morning found Darrell on his way to the camp, looking longingly
forward to his busy life amid the mountains, and firmly believing that
it would be many a day before he again saw The Pines.




_Chapter XXIII_

THE MASK LIFTED


Three weeks of clear, cold weather followed, in which the snow became
packed and frozen until the horses' hoofs on the mountain roads
resounded as though on asphalt, and the steel shoes of the heavily laden
sleds rang out a cheerful rhyme on the frosty air.

These were weeks of strenuous application to work on Darrell's part. His
evenings were now spent, far into the night, in writing. He still kept
the journal begun during his first winter in camp, believing it would
one day prove of inestimable value as a connecting link between past and
future. The geological and mineralogical data which he had collected
through more than twelve months' research and experiment was now nearly
complete, and he had undertaken the work of arranging it, along with
copious notes, in form for publication. It was an arduous but
fascinating task and one to which he often wished he might devote his
entire time.

He was sitting before the fire at night, deeply engrossed in this work,
when he was aroused by the sound of hoof-beats on the mountain road
leading from the canyon to the camp. He listened; they came rapidly
nearer; it was a horseman riding fast and furiously, and by the heavy
pounding of the foot-falls Darrell knew the animal he rode was nearly
exhausted. On they came past the miners' quarters towards the office
building; it was then some messenger from The Pines, and at that
hour--Darrell glanced at the clock, it was nearly midnight--it could be
no message of trifling import.

Darrell sprang to his feet and, rushing through the outer room, followed
by Duke barking excitedly, opened the door just as the rider drew rein
before it. What was his astonishment to see Bennett, one of the house
servants, on a panting, foam-covered horse.

"Ah, Mr. Darrell," the man cried, as the door opened, "it's a good thing
that you keep late hours; right glad I was to see the light in your
window, I can tell you, sir!"

"But, Bennett, what brings you here at this time of night?" Darrell
asked, hastily.

"Mrs. Dean sent me, sir. Mr. Underwood, he's had a stroke and is as
helpless as a baby, sir, and Mrs. Dean's alone, excepting for us
servants. She sent me for you, sir; here's a note from her, and she said
you was to ride right back with me, if you would, sir."

"Certainly, I'll go with you," Darrell answered, taking the note; "but
that horse must not stand in the cold another minute. Ride right over
into the stables yonder; wake up the stable-men and tell them to rub him
down and blanket him at once, and then to saddle Trix and Rob Roy as
quickly as they can. And while they're looking after the horses, you go
over to the boarding-house and wake up the cook and tell him to get us
up a good, substantial hand-out; we'll need it before morning. I'll be
ready in a few minutes, and I'll meet you over there."

"All right, sir," Bennett responded, starting in the direction of the
stables, while Darrell went back into his room. Opening the note, he
read the following:

     "MY DEAR JOHN: I am in trouble and look to you as to a son. David
     has had a paralytic stroke; was brought home helpless about five
     o'clock. I am alone, as you might say, as there is none of the
     family here. Will you come at once?

                               Yours in sorrow, but with love,
                                                    MARCIA DEAN."

Darrell's face grew thoughtful as he refolded the missive. He glanced
regretfully at his notes and manuscript, then carefully gathered them
together and locked them in his desk, little thinking that months would
pass ere he would again resume the work thus interrupted. Then only
stopping long enough to write a few lines of explanation to Hathaway,
the superintendent, he seized his fur coat, cap, and gloves, and
hastened over to the boarding-house where a lunch was already awaiting
him. Half an hour later he and Bennett were riding rapidly down the
road, Duke bounding on ahead.

They reached The Pines between four and five o'clock. Darrell, leaving
the horses in Bennett's care, went directly to the house. Before he
could reach the door it was opened by Mrs. Dean.

"I ought not to have sent for you on such a night as this!" she
exclaimed, as Darrell entered the room, his clothes glistening with
frost, the broad collar turned up about his face a mass of icicles from
his frozen breath; "but I felt as though I didn't know what to do, and I
wanted some one here who did. I was afraid to take the responsibility
any longer."

"You did just right," Darrell answered, dashing away the ice from his
face; "I only wish you had sent for me earlier--as soon as this
happened. How is Mr. Underwood?"

"He is in pretty bad shape, but the doctors think he will pull through.
They have been working over him all night, and he is getting so he can
move the right hand a little, but the other side seems badly paralyzed."

"Is he conscious?"

"Yes, he moves his hand when we speak to him, but he looks so worried.
That was one reason why I sent for you; I thought he would feel easier
to know you were here."

As Darrell approached the bedside he was shocked at the changes wrought
in so short a time in the stern, but genial face. It had aged twenty
years, and the features, partially drawn to one side, had, as Mrs. Dean
remarked, a strained, worried expression. The eyes of the sick man
brightened for an instant as Darrell bent over him, assuring him that he
would attend to everything, but the anxious look still remained.

"I don't know anything about David's business affairs," Mrs. Dean
remarked, as she and Darrell left the room, "but I know as well as I
want to that this was brought on by some business trouble. I am
satisfied something was wrong at the office yesterday, though I wouldn't
say so to any one but you."

"Why do you think so?" Darrell queried, in surprise.

"Because he was all right when he went away yesterday morning, but when
he came home at noon he was different from what I had ever seen him
before. He had just that worried look he has now, and he seemed
absent-minded. He was in a great hurry to get back, and the head
book-keeper tells me he called for the books to be brought into his
private office, and that he spent most of the afternoon going through
them. He says that about four o'clock he went through the office, and
David was sitting before his desk with his head on his hands, and he
didn't speak or look up. A little while afterwards they heard the sound
of something heavy falling and ran to his room, and he had fallen on the
floor."

"It does look," Darrell admitted, thoughtfully, "as though this may have
been caused by the discovery of some wrong condition of affairs."

"Yes, and it must be pretty serious," Mrs. Dean rejoined, "to bring
about such results as these."

"Well," said Darrell, "we may not be able to arrive at the cause of this
for some time. The first thing to be done is to see that you take a good
rest; don't have any anxiety; I will look after everything. As soon as
it is daylight it would be well to telegraph for Mr. Britton if you know
his address, and possibly for Miss Underwood unless he should seem
decidedly better."

But Mrs. Dean did not know Mr. Britton's address, no word having been
received from him since his departure, and with the return of daylight
Mr. Underwood had gained so perceptibly it was thought best not to alarm
Kate unnecessarily.

For the first few days the improvement in Mr. Underwood's condition was
slow, but gradually became quite pronounced. Nothing had been heard from
Walcott since his sudden leave-taking, but about a week after Mr.
Underwood's seizure word was received from him that he was on his way
home. As an excuse for his prolonged absence and silence he stated that
his father had died and that he had been delayed in the adjustment of
business matters.

It was noticeable that after receiving word from Walcott the look of
anxiety in Mr. Underwood's face deepened, but his improvement was more
marked than ever. It seemed as though the powerful brain and
indomitable will dominated the body, forcing it to resume its former
activity. By this time he was able to move about his room on crutches,
and on the day of Walcott's return he insisted upon being placed in his
carriage and taken to the office. At his request Darrell accompanied him
and remained with him.

Walcott, upon his arrival in the city, had heard of the illness of his
senior partner, and was therefore greatly surprised on entering the
offices to find him there. He quickly recovered himself and greeted Mr.
Underwood with expressions of profound sympathy. To his words of
condolence, however, Mr. Underwood deigned no reply, but his keen eyes
bent a searching look upon the face of the younger man, under which the
latter quailed visibly; then, without any preliminaries or any inquiries
regarding his absence, Mr. Underwood at once proceeded to business
affairs.

His stay at the office was brief, as he soon found himself growing
fatigued. As he was leaving Walcott inquired politely for Mrs. Dean,
then with great particularity for Miss Underwood.

"She is out of town at present," Mr. Underwood replied, watching
Walcott.

"Out of town? Indeed! Since when, may I inquire?"

"You evidently have not been in correspondence with her," Mr. Underwood
commented, ignoring the other's question.

"Well, no," the latter stammered, slightly taken aback by his partner's
manner; "I had absolutely no opportunity for writing, or I would have
written you earlier, and then, really, you know, it was hardly to be
expected that I would write Miss Underwood, considering her attitude
towards myself. I am hoping that she will regard me with more favor
after this little absence."

"You will probably be able to judge of that on her return," the elder
man answered, dryly.

Kate, on being informed by letter of her father's condition, had wished
to return home at once. She had been deterred from doing so by brief
messages from him to the effect that she remain with her friends, but
she was unable to determine whether those messages were prompted by
kindness or anger. On the evening following Walcott's return, however,
Mr. Underwood dictated to Darrell a letter to Kate, addressing her by
her pet name, assuring her of his constant improvement, and that she
need on no account shorten her visit but enjoy herself as long as
possible, and enclosing a generous check as a present.

To Darrell and to Mrs. Dean, who was sitting near by with her knitting,
this letter seemed rather significant, and their eyes met in a glance of
mutual inquiry. After Mr. Underwood had retired Darrell surprised that
worthy lady by an account of her brother's reception of Walcott that
day, while she in turn treated Darrell to a greater surprise by telling
him of Kate's renunciation of Walcott at the last moment, before she
knew anything of the postponement of the wedding.

As they separated for the night Darrell remarked, "I may be wrong, but
it looks to me as though the cause of Mr. Underwood's illness was the
discovery of some evidence of bad faith on Walcott's part."

"It looks that way," Mrs. Dean assented; "I've always felt that man
would bring us trouble, and I hope David does find him out before it's
too late."




_Chapter XXIV_

FORESHADOWINGS


During Mr. Underwood's illness and convalescence it was pathetic to
watch his dependence upon Darrell. He seemed to regard him almost as a
son, and when, as his health improved, Darrell spoke of returning to the
camp, he would not hear of it.

Every day after Walcott's return Mr. Underwood was taken to the office,
where he gradually resumed charge, directing the business of the firm
though able to do little himself. As he was still unable to write, he
wished Darrell to act as his secretary, and the latter, glad of an
opportunity to reciprocate Mr. Underwood's many kindnesses to himself,
readily acceded to his wishes. When engaged in this work he used the
room which had formerly been his own office and which of late had been
unoccupied.

Returning to his office after the transaction of some outside business,
to await, as usual, the carriage to convey Mr. Underwood and himself to
The Pines, he heard Walcott's voice in the adjoining room. A peculiar
quality in his tones, as though he were pleading for favor, arrested
Darrell's attention, and he could not then avoid hearing what followed.

"But surely," he was saying, "an amount so trifling, and taking all the
circumstances into consideration, that I regarded myself already one of
your family and looked upon you as my father, you certainly cannot take
so harsh a view of it!"

"That makes no difference whatever," Mr. Underwood interposed sternly;
"misappropriation of funds is misappropriation of funds, no matter what
the amount or the circumstances under which it is taken, and as for your
looking upon me as a father, I wouldn't allow my own son, if I had one,
to appropriate one dollar of my money without my knowledge and consent.
If you needed money you had only to say so, and I would have loaned you
any amount necessary."

"But I regarded this in the nature of a loan," Walcott protested, "only
I was so limited for time I did not think it necessary to speak of it
until my return."

"You were not so limited but that you had time to tamper with the books
and make false entries in them," Mr. Underwood retorted.

"That was done simply to blind the employees, so they need not catch on
that I was borrowing."

"There is no use in further talk," the other interrupted, impatiently;
"what you have done is done, and your talk will not smooth it over.
Besides, I have already told you that I care far less for the money
withdrawn from my personal account than for the way you are conducting
business generally. There is not a client of mine who can say that I
have ever wronged him or taken an unfair advantage of him, and I'll not
have any underhanded work started here now. Everything has got to be
open and above-board."

"As I have said, Mr. Underwood, in the hurry and excitement of the last
week or so before my going away I was forced to neglect some business
matters; but if I will straighten everything into satisfactory shape and
repay that small loan, as I still regard it, I hope then that our former
pleasant relations will be resumed, and that no little misapprehension
of this sort will make any difference between us."

"Walcott," said Mr. Underwood, rising on his crutches and preparing to
leave the room, "I had absolute confidence in you; I trusted you
implicitly. Your own conduct has shaken that confidence, and it may be
some time before it is wholly restored. We will continue business as
before; but remember, you are on probation, sir--on probation!"

When Kate Underwood received her father's letter, instead of prolonging
her visit she at once prepared to return home. She understood that the
barrier between her father and herself had been swept away, and nothing
could then hold her back from him.

Two days later, as Mr. Underwood was seated by the fire on his return
from the office, there came a ring at the door which he took to be the
postman's. Mrs. Dean answered the door.

"Any letter from Kate?" he asked, as his sister returned.

"Yes, there's a pretty good-sized one," she replied, with a broad smile,
adding, as he glanced in surprise at her empty hands, "I didn't bring
it; 'twas too heavy!"

The next instant two arms were thrown about his neck, a slender figure
was kneeling beside him, and a fair young face was pressed close to his,
while words of endearment were murmured in his ear.

Without a word he clasped her to his breast, holding her for a few
moments as though he feared to let her go. Then, relaxing his hold, he
playfully pinched her cheeks and stroked the brown hair, calling her by
the familiar name "Puss," while his face lighted with the old genial
smile for the first time since his illness. Each scanned the other's
face, striving to gauge the other's feelings, but each read only that
the old relations were re-established between them, and each was
satisfied.

Within a day or so of her return Kate despatched a messenger to Walcott
with the ring, accompanied by a brief note to the effect that everything
between them was at an end, but that it was useless for him to seek an
explanation, as she would give none whatever.

He at once took the note to his senior partner.

"I understood, Mr. Underwood, that everything was amicably adjusted
between us; I did not suppose that you had carried your suspicions
against me to any such length as this!"

Mr. Underwood read the note. "I know nothing whatever regarding my
daughter's reasons for her decision, and have had nothing whatever to do
with it. I knew that she had formed that decision at the last moment
before the wedding ceremony was to be performed, before she was even
aware of its postponement. She seemed to think she had sufficient
reasons, but what those reasons were I have never asked and do not
know."

"But do you intend to allow her to play fast and loose with me in this
way? Is she not to fulfil her engagement?" Walcott inquired, with
difficulty concealing his anger.

Mr. Underwood regarded him steadily for a moment. "Mr. Walcott, taking
all things into consideration, I think perhaps we had better let things
remain as they are, say, for a year or so. My daughter is young; there
is no need of haste in the consummation of this marriage. I have found
what she is worth to me, and I am in no haste to spare her from my home.
If she is worth having as a wife, she is worth winning, and I shall not
force her against her wishes a second time."

Mr. Underwood spoke quietly, but Walcott understood that further
discussion was useless.

Meeting Kate a few days later in her father's office, he greeted her
with marked politeness. After a few inquiries regarding her visit, he
said,--

"May I be allowed to inquire who is responsible for your sudden decision
against me?"

"You, and you alone, are responsible," she replied.

"But I do not understand you," he said.

"Explanations are unnecessary," she rejoined, coldly.

Walcott grew angry. "I know very well that certain of your friends are
no friends of mine. If I thought that either or both of them had had a
hand in this I would make it a bitter piece of work for them!"

"Mr. Walcott," said Kate, with dignity, "you only demean yourself by
such threats. No one has influenced me in this matter but you yourself.
You unwittingly afforded me, at the last moment, an insight into your
real character. That is enough!"

Walcott felt that he had gone too far. "Perhaps I spoke hastily, but
surely it was pardonable considering my grievance. I hope you will
overlook it and allow me to see you at The Pines, will you not, Miss
Underwood?"

"If my father sees fit to invite you to his house I will probably meet
you as his guest, but not otherwise."

Although Mr. Underwood had resumed charge of the downtown offices as
before his illness, it soon became evident to all that his active
business life was practically over, and that some of his varied
interests, involving as they did a multiplicity of cares and
responsibilities, must be curtailed. It was therefore decided to sell
the mines at Camp Bird at as early a date as practicable, and Mr.
Britton, Mr. Underwood's partner in the mining business, was summoned
from a distant State to conduct negotiations for the sale. He arrived
early in April, and from that time on he and Darrell were engaged in
appraising and advertising the property embraced in the great mining and
milling plant, in arranging the terms of sale, and in accompanying
various prospective purchasers or their agents to and from the mines.

Darrell's work as Mr. Underwood's secretary had been taken up by Kate,
who now seldom left her father's side. Between herself and Darrell there
was a comradeship similar to that which existed between them previous to
her engagement with Walcott, only more healthful and normal, being
unmixed with any regret for the past or dread of the future.

"You will remain at The Pines when the mines are sold, will you not?"
she inquired one day on his return from a trip to the camp.

"Not unless I am needed," he replied; "your father will need me but
little longer; then, unless you need me, I had better not remain."

She was silent for a moment. "No," she said, slowly, "I do not need you;
I have the assurance of your love; that is enough. I know you will be
loyal to me as I to you, wherever you may be."

"I will feel far less regret in going away now that I know you are free
from that man Walcott," Darrell continued; "but I wish you would please
answer me one question, Kathie: have you any fear of him?"

"Not for myself," she answered; "but I believe he is a man to be feared,
and," she added, significantly, "I do sometimes fear him for my friends;
perhaps for that reason it is, as you say, better that you should not
remain."

"Have no fear for me, Kathie. I understand. That man has been my enemy
from our first meeting; but have no fear; I am not afraid."

By the latter part of May negotiations for the sale of the mines had
been consummated, and Camp Bird passed into the possession of strangers.
It was with a feeling of exile and homelessness that Darrell, riding for
the last time down the canyon road, turned to bid the mountains
farewell, looking back with lingering glances into the frowning faces he
had learned to love.

"What do you propose doing now?" Mr. Britton asked of him as they were
walking together the evening after his return from camp.

"That is just what I have been asking myself," Darrell replied.

"Without arriving at any satisfactory conclusion?"

"Not as yet."

"What would you wish to do, were you given your choice?"

"What I wish to do, and what I intend to do if possible, is to devote
the next few months to the completion of my book. I can now afford to
devote my entire time to it, but I could not do the work justice unless
amid the right surroundings, and the question is, where to find them. I
do not care to remain here, and yet I shrink from going among
strangers."

"There is no need of that," Mr. Britton interposed, quickly; after a
pause he continued: "You once expressed a desire for a sort of hermit
life. I think by this time you have grown sufficiently out of yourself
that you could safely live alone with yourself for a while. How would
that suit you for three or four months?"

"I should like it above all things," Darrell answered enthusiastically;
"it would be just the thing for my work, but where or how could I live
in such a manner?"

"I believe I agreed at that time to furnish the hermitage whenever you
were ready for it."

"Yes, you said something of the kind, but I never understood what you
meant by it."

"Settle up your business here, pack together what things you need for a
few months' sojourn in the mountains, be ready to start with me next
week, and you will soon understand."

"What is this hermitage, as you call it, and where is it?" Darrell
asked, curiously.

The other only shook his head with a smile.

"All right," said Darrell, laughing; "I only hope it is as secluded and
beautiful as Camp Bird; I am homesick to-night for my old quarters."

"You can spend your entire time, if you so desire, without a glimpse of
a human being other than the man who will look after your needs, except
as I may occasionally inflict myself upon you for a day or so."

"Good!" Darrell ejaculated.

"It is amid some of the grandest scenery ever created," Mr. Britton
continued, adding, slowly, "and to me it is the most sacred spot on
earth,--a veritable Holy of Holies; some day you will know why."

"I thank you, and I beg pardon for my levity," said Darrell, touched by
the other's manner. And the two men clasped hands and parted for the
night.

A few days later, as Darrell bade his friends at The Pines good-by, Kate
whispered,--

"You think this is a parting for three or four months; I feel that it is
more. Something tells me that before we meet again there will be a
change--I cannot tell what--that will involve a long separation; but I
know that through it all our hearts will be true to each other and that
out of it will come joy to each of us."

"God grant it, Kathie!" Darrell murmured.




_Chapter XXV_

THE "HERMITAGE"


Deep within the heart of the Rockies a June day was drawing to its
close. Behind a range of snow-crowned peaks the sun was sinking into a
sea of fire which glowed and shimmered along the western horizon and in
whose transfiguring radiance the bold outlines of the mountains,
extending far as the eye could reach in endless ranks, were marvellously
softened; the nearer cliffs and crags were wrapped in a golden glory,
while the hoary peaks against the eastern sky wore tints of rose and
amethyst, and over the whole brooded the silence of the ages.

Less than a score of miles distant a busy city throbbed with ceaseless
life and activity, but these royal monarchs, towering one above another,
their hands joined in mystic fellowship, their heads white with eternal
snows, dwelt in the same unbroken calm in which, with noiseless step,
the centuries had come and gone, leaving their footprints in the granite
rocks.

Amid those vast distances only two signs of human handiwork were
visible. Close clinging to the sides of a rugged mountain a narrow track
of shining steel wound its way upward, marking the pathway of
civilization in its march from sea to sea, while near the summit of a
neighboring peak a quaint cabin of unhewn logs arranged in Gothic
fashion was built into the granite ledge.

On a small plateau before this unique dwelling stood John Britton and
John Darrell, the latter absorbed in the wondrous scene, the other
watching with intense satisfaction the surprise and rapture of his young
companion. They stood thus till the sun dipped out of sight. The
radiance faded, rose and amethyst deepened to purple; the mountains grew
sombre and dun, their rugged outlines standing in bold relief against
the evening sky. A nighthawk, circling above their heads, broke the
silence with his shrill, plaintive cry, and with a sigh of deep content
Darrell turned to his friend.

"What do you think of it?" the latter asked.

"It is unspeakably grand," was the reply, in awed tones.

Beckoning Darrell to follow, Mr. Britton led the way to the cabin, which
he unlocked and entered.

"Welcome to the 'Hermitage!'" he said, smilingly, as Darrell paused on
the threshold with an exclamation of delight.

A huge fireplace, blasted from solid rock, extended nearly across one
side of the room. Over it hung antlers of moose, elk, and deer, while
skins of mountain lion, bear, and wolf covered the floor. A large
writing-table stood in the centre of the room, and beside it a bookcase
filled with the works of some of the world's greatest authors.

Darrell lifted one book after another with the reverential touch of the
true book-lover, while Mr. Britton hastily arranged the belongings of
the room so as to render it as cosey and attractive as possible.

"The evenings are so cool at this altitude that a fire will soon seem
grateful," he remarked, lighting the fragrant boughs of spruce and
hemlock which filled the fireplace and drawing chairs before the
crackling, dancing flames.

Duke, who had accompanied them, stretched himself in the firelight with
a low growl of satisfaction, at which both men smiled.

It was the first time Darrell had ever seen his friend in the rôle of
host, but Mr. Britton proved himself a royal entertainer. His
experiences of mountain life had been varied and thrilling, and the
cabin contained many relics and trophies of his prowess as huntsman and
trapper. As the evening wore on Mr. Britton opened a small store-room
built in the rock, and took therefrom a tempting repast of venison and
wild fowl which his forethought had ordered placed there for the
occasion. To Darrell, sitting by the fragrant fire and listening to
tales of adventure, the time passed only too swiftly, and he was sorry
when the entrance of the man with his luggage recalled them to the
lateness of the hour.

"There is a genuine hermit for you," Mr. Britton remarked, as the man
took his departure after agreeing to come to the cabin once a day to do
whatever might be needed.

"Who is he?" Darrell asked.

"No one knows. He goes by the name of 'Peter,' but nothing is known of
his real name or history. He has lived in these mountains for thirty
years and has not visited a city or town of any size in that time. He is
a trapper, but acts as guide during the summers. He is very popular with
tourist and hunting parties that come to the mountains, but nothing will
induce him to leave his haunts except as he occasionally goes to some
small station for supplies."

"Where does he live?"

"In a cabin about half-way down the trail. He is a good cook, a faithful
man every way, but you will find him very reticent. He is one of the
many in this country whose past is buried out of sight."

Mr. Britton then led the way to two smaller rooms,--a kitchen,
equipped with a small stove, table, and cooking utensils, and a
sleeping-apartment, its two bunks piled with soft blankets and
wolf-skins.

As Darrell proceeded to disrobe his attention was suddenly attracted by
an object in one corner of the room which he was unable to distinguish
clearly in the dim light. Upon going over to examine it more closely,
what was his astonishment to see a large crucifix of exquisite design
and workmanship. As he turned towards Mr. Britton the latter smiled to
see the bewilderment depicted on his face.

"You did not expect to find such a souvenir of old Rome in a mountain
cabin, did you?" he asked.

"Perhaps not," Darrell admitted; "but that of itself is not what so
greatly surprises me. Are you a----" He paused abruptly, without
finishing the question.

"I will answer the question you hesitate to ask," the other replied;
"no, I am not a Catholic; neither am I, in the strict sense of the word,
a Protestant, or one who protests, since, if I were, I would protest no
more earnestly against the errors of the Catholic Church than against
the evils existing in other so-called Christian churches."

Darrell's eyes returned to the crucifix.

"That," continued Mr. Britton, "was given me years ago by a beloved
friend of mine--a priest, now an archbishop--in return for a few
services rendered some of his people. I keep it for the lessons it
taught me in the years of my sorrow, and whenever my burden seems
greater than I can bear, I come back here and look at that, and beside
the suffering which it symbolizes my own is dwarfed to insignificance."

A long silence followed; then, as they lay down in the darkness, Darrell
said, in subdued tones,--

"I have never heard you say, and it never before occurred to me to ask,
what was your religion."

"I don't know that I have any particular religion," Mr. Britton
answered, slowly; "I have no formulated creed. I am a child of God and a
disciple of Jesus, the Christ. Like Him, I am the child of a King, a son
of the highest Royalty, yet a servant to my fellow-men; that is all."

The following morning Mr. Britton awakened Darrell at an early hour.

"Forgive me for disturbing your slumbers, but I want you to see the
sunrise from these heights; I think you will feel repaid. You could not
see it at the camp, you were so hemmed in by higher mountains."

Darrell rose and, having dressed hastily, stepped out into the gray
twilight of the early dawn. A faint flush tinged the eastern sky, which
deepened to a roseate hue, growing moment by moment brighter and more
vivid. Chain after chain of mountains, slumbering dark and grim against
the horizon, suddenly awoke, blushing and smiling in the rosy light.
Then, as rays of living flame shot upward, mingling with the crimson
waves and changing them to molten gold, the snowy caps of the higher
peaks were transformed to jewelled crowns. There was a moment of
transcendent beauty, then, in a burst of glory, the sun appeared.

"That is a sight I shall never forget, and one I shall try to see
often," Darrell said, as they retraced their steps to the cabin.

"You will never find it twice the same," Mr. Britton answered; "Nature
varies her gifts so that to her true lovers they will not pall."

After breakfast they again strolled out into the sunlight, Mr. Britton
seating himself upon a projecting ledge of granite, while Darrell threw
himself down upon the mountain grass, his head resting within his
clasped hands.

"What an ideal spot for my work!" he exclaimed.

Mr. Britton smiled. "I fear you would never accomplish much with me
here. I must return to the city soon, or you will degenerate into a
confirmed idler."

"I have often thought," said Darrell, reflectively, "that when I have
completed this work I would like to attempt a novel. It seems as though
there is plenty of material out here for a strong one. Think of the
lives one comes in contact with almost daily--stranger than fiction,
every one!"

"Your own, for instance," Mr. Britton suggested.

"Yours also," Darrell replied, in low tones; "the story of your life, if
rightly told, would do more to uplift men's souls than nine-tenths of
the sermons."

"The story of my life, my son, will never be told to any ear other than
your own, and I trust to your love for me that it will go no farther."

"Of that you can rest assured," Darrell replied.

As the sun climbed towards the zenith they returned to the cabin and
seated themselves on a broad settee of rustic work under an overhanging
vine near the cabin door.

"I have been wondering ever since I came here," said Darrell, "how you
ever discovered such a place as this. It is so unique and so appropriate
to the surroundings."

"I discovered," said Mr. Britton, with slight emphasis on the word,
"only the 'surroundings.' The cabin is my own work."

"What! do you mean to say that you built it?"

"Yes, little by little. At first it was hardly more than a rude shelter,
but I gradually enlarged it and beautified it, trying always, as you
say, to keep it in harmony with its surroundings."

"Then you are an artist and a genius."

"But that is not the only work I did during the first months of my life
here. Come with me and I will show you."

He led the way along the trail, farther up the mountain, till a sharp
turn hid him from view. Darrell, following closely, came upon the
entrance of an incline shaft leading into the mountain. Just within he
saw Mr. Britton lighting two candles which he had taken from a rocky
ledge; one of these he handed to Darrell, and then proceeded down the
shaft.

"A mine!" Darrell exclaimed.

"Yes, and a valuable one, were it only accessible so that it could be
developed without enormous expense; but that is out of the question."

The underground workings were not extensive, but the vein was one of
exceptional richness. When they emerged later Darrell brought with him
some specimens and a tiny nugget of gold as souvenirs.

"The first season," said Mr. Britton, "I worked the mine and built the
cabin as a shelter for the coming winter. The winter months I spent in
hunting and trapping when I could go out in the mountains, and
hibernated during the long storms. Early in the spring I began mining
again and worked the following season. By that time I was ready to start
forth into the world, so I gave Peter an interest in the mine, and he
works it from time to time, doing little more than the representation
each year."

As they descended towards the cabin Mr. Britton continued: "I have shown
you this that you may the better understand the story I have to tell you
before I leave you as sole occupant of the Hermitage."




_Chapter XXVI_

JOHN BRITTON'S STORY


Evening found Darrell and his friend seated on the rocks watching the
sunset. Mr. Britton was unusually silent, and Darrell, through a sort of
intuitive sympathy, refrained from breaking the silence. At last, as the
glow was fading from earth and sky, Mr. Britton said,--

"I have chosen this day and this hour to tell you my story, because,
being the anniversary of my wedding, it seemed peculiarly appropriate.
Twenty-eight years ago, at sunset, on such a royal day as this, we were
married--my love and I."

He spoke with an unnatural calmness, as though it were another's story
he was telling.

"I was young, with a decided aptitude for commercial life, ambitious,
determined to make my way in life, but with little capital besides sound
health and a good education. She was the daughter of a wealthy man. We
speak in this country of 'mining kings;' he might be denominated an
'agricultural king.' He prided himself upon his hundreds of fertile
acres, his miles of forest, his immense dairy, his blooded horses, his
magnificent barns and granaries, his beautiful home. She was the younger
daughter--his especial pet and pride. For a while, as a friend and
acquaintance of his two daughters, I was welcome at his home; later, as
a lover of the younger, I was banished and its doors closed against me.
Our love was no foolish boy and girl romance, and we had no word of
kindly counsel; only unreasoning, stubborn opposition. What followed
was only what might have been expected. Strong in our love for and trust
in each other, we went to a neighboring village, and, going to a little
country parsonage, were married, without one thought of the madness, the
folly of what we were doing. We found the minister and his family seated
outside the house under a sort of arbor of flowering shrubs, and I
remember it was her wish that the ceremony be performed there. Never can
I forget her as she stood there, her hand trembling in mine at the
strangeness of the situation, her cheeks flushed with excitement, her
lips quivering as she made the responses, the slanting sunbeams kissing
her hair and brow and the fragrant, snowy petals of the mock-orange
falling about her.

"A few weeks of unalloyed happiness followed; then gradually my eyes
were opened to the wrong I had done her. My heart smote me as I saw her,
day by day, performing household tasks to which she was unaccustomed,
subjected to petty trials and privations, denying herself in many little
ways in order to help me. She never murmured, but her very fortitude and
cheerfulness were a constant reproach to me.

"But a few months elapsed when we found that another was coming to share
our home and our love. We rejoiced together, but my heart reproached me
more bitterly than ever as I realized how ill prepared she was for what
awaited her. Our trials and privations brought us only closer to each
other, but my brain was racked with anxiety and my heart bled as day by
day I saw the dawning motherhood in her eyes,--the growing tenderness,
the look of sweet, wondering expectancy. I grew desperate.

"From a booming western city came reports of marvellous openings for
business men--of small investments bringing swift and large returns. I
placed my wife in the care of a good, motherly woman and bade her
good-by, while she, brave heart, without a tear, bade me God-speed. I
went there determined to win, to make a home to which I would bring both
wife and child later. For three months I made money, sending half to
her, and investing every cent which I did not absolutely need of the
other half. Then came tales from a mining district still farther west,
of fabulous fortunes made in a month, a week, sometimes a day. What was
the use of dallying where I was? I hastened to the mining camp. In less
than a week I had 'struck it rich,' and knew that in all probability I
would within a month draw out a fortune.

"Just at this time the letters from home ceased. For seven days I heard
nothing, and half mad with anxiety and suspense I awaited each night the
incoming train to bring me tidings. One night, just as the train was
about to leave, I caught sight of a former acquaintance from a
neighboring village, bound for a camp yet farther west, and, as I
greeted him, he told me in few words and pitying tones of the death of
my wife and child."

For a moment Mr. Britton paused, and Darrell drew instinctively nearer,
though saying nothing.

"I have no distinct recollection of what followed. I was told afterwards
that friendly hands caught me as the train started, to save me from
being crushed beneath the wheels. For three months I wandered from one
mining camp to another, working mechanically, with no thought or care as
to success or failure. An old miner from the first camp who had taken a
liking to me followed me in my wanderings and worked beside me, caring
for me and guarding my savings as though he had been a father. The old
fellow never left me, nor I him, until his death three years later. He
taught me many valuable points in practical mining, and I think his
rough but kindly care was all that saved me from insanity during those
years.

"After his death I brooded over my grief till I became nearly frenzied.
I could not banish the thought that but for my rashness and foolishness
in taking her from her home my wife might still have been living. To
myself I seemed little short of a murderer. I left the camp and
wandered, night and day, afar into the mountains. I came to this
mountain on which we are sitting and climbed nearly to the top. God was
there, but, like Jacob of old, 'I knew it not.' But something seemed to
speak to me out of the infinite silence, calming my frenzied brain and
soothing my troubled soul. I sat there till the stars appeared, and then
I sank into a deep, peaceful sleep--the first in years. When I awoke the
sun was shining in my face, and, though the old pain still throbbed, I
had a sense of new strength with which to bear it. I ate of the food I
carried with me and drank from a mountain stream--the same that trickles
past us now, only nearer its source. The place fascinated me; I dared
not leave it, and I spent the day in wandering up and down the rocks. My
steps were guided to the mine I showed you to-day. I saw the indications
of richness there, and, overturning the earth with my pick, found gold
among the very grassroots. Then followed the life of which I have
already given you an outline.

"For a while I worked in pain and anguish, but gradually, in the
solitude of the mountains, my spirit found peace; against their infinity
my life with its burden dwindled to an atom, and from the lesson of
their centuries of silent waiting I gathered strength and fortitude to
await my appointed time.

"But after a time God spoke to me and bade me go forth from my solitude
into the world, to comfort other sorrowing souls as I had been
comforted. From that time I have travelled almost constantly. I have no
home; I wish none. I want to bring comfort and help to as many of
earth's sorrowing, sinning children as possible; but when the old wound
bleeds afresh and the pain becomes more than I can bear I flee as a bird
to my mountain for balm and healing. Do you wonder, my son, that the
place is sacred to me? Do you understand my love for you in bringing you
here?"

Darrell sat with bowed head, speechless, but one hand went out to Mr.
Britton, which the latter clasped in both his own.

When at last he raised his head he exclaimed, "Strange! but your story
has wrung my soul! It seems in some inexplicable way a part of my very
life!"

"Our souls seem united by some mystic tie--I cannot explain what, unless
it be that in some respects our sufferings have been similar."

"Mine have been as nothing to yours," Darrell replied. A moment later he
added:

"I feel as one in a dream; what you have told me has taken such hold
upon me."

Night had fallen when they returned to the cabin.

"This seems hallowed ground to me now," Darrell remarked.

"It has always seemed so to me," Mr. Britton replied; "but remember, so
long as you have need of the place it is always open to you."

"'Until the day break and the shadows flee away,'" Darrell responded, in
low tones, as though to himself.

Mr. Britton caught his meaning. "My son," he said, "when the day breaks
for you do not forget those who still sit in darkness!"




_Chapter XXVII_

THE RENDING OF THE VEIL


The story of Mr. Britton's life impressed Darrell deeply. In the days
following his friend's departure he would sit for hours revolving it in
his mind, unable to rid himself of the impression that it was in some
way connected with his own life. Impelled by some motive he could
scarcely explain, he recorded it in his journal as told by Mr. Britton
as nearly as he could recall it.

Left to himself he worked with unabated ardor, but his work soon grew
unsatisfying. The inspiring nature of his surroundings seemed to
stimulate him to higher effort and loftier work, which should call into
play the imaginative faculties and in which the brain would be free to
weave its own creations. Stronger within him grew the desire to write a
novel which should have in it something of the power, the force, of the
strenuous western life,--something which would seem, in a measure at
least, worthy of his surroundings. His day's work ended, he would walk
up and down the rocks, sometimes far into the night, the plot for this
story forming within his brain, till at last its outlines grew distinct
and he knew the thing that was to be, as the sculptor knows what will
come forth at his bidding from the lifeless marble. He made a careful
synopsis of the plot that nothing might escape him in the uncertain
future, and then began to write.

The order of his work was now reversed, the new undertaking being given
his first and best thought; then, when imagination wearied and refused
to rise above the realms of fact, he fell back upon his scientific work
as a rest from the other. Thus employed the weeks passed with incredible
swiftness, the monotony broken by an occasional visit from Mr. Britton,
until August came, its hot breath turning the grasses sere and brown.

One evening Darrell came forth from his work at a later hour than usual.
His mind had been unusually active, his imagination vivid, but, wearied
at last, he was compelled to stop short of the task he had set for
himself.

The heat had been intense that day, and the atmosphere seemed peculiarly
oppressive. The sun was sinking amid light clouds of gorgeous tints, and
as Darrell watched their changing outlines they seemed fit emblems of
the thoughts at that moment baffling his weary brain,--elusive,
intangible, presenting themselves in numberless forms, yet always beyond
his grasp.

Standing erect, with arms folded, his pose indicated conscious strength,
and the face lifted to the evening sky was one which would have
commanded attention amid a sea of human faces. Two years had wrought
wondrous changes in it. Strength and firmness were there still, but
sweetness was mingled with the strength, and the old, indomitable will
was tempered with gentleness. All the finer susceptibilities had been
awakened and had left their impress there. Introspection had done its
work. It was the face of a man who knew himself and had conquered
himself. The sculptor's work was almost complete.

Not a breath stirred the air, which moment by moment grew more
oppressive, presaging a coming storm. Darrell was suddenly filled with a
strange unrest--a presentiment of some impending catastrophe. For a
while he walked restlessly up and down the narrow plateau; then, seating
himself in front of the cabin, he bowed his head upon his hands,
shutting out all sight and thought of the present, for his mind seemed
teeming with vague, shadowy forms of the past. Duke came near and laid
his head against his master's shoulder, and the twilight deepened around
them both.

Far up the neighboring mountain a mighty engine loomed out from the
gathering darkness--a fiery-headed monster--and with its long train of
coaches crawled serpent-like around the rocky height, then vanished as
it came. The clouds which had been roving indolently across the western
horizon suddenly formed in line and moved steadily--a solid
battalion--upward towards the zenith, while from the east another
phalanx, black and threatening, advanced with low, wrathful mutterings.

Unmindful of the approaching storm Darrell sat, silent and motionless,
till a sudden peal of thunder--the first note of the impending
battle--roused him from his revery. Springing to his feet he watched the
rapidly advancing armies marshalling their forces upon the
battle-ground. Another roll of thunder, and the conflict began. Up and
down the mountain passes the winds rushed wildly, shrieking like demons.
Around the lofty summits the lightnings played like the burnished swords
of giants in mortal combat, while peal after peal resounded through the
vast spaces, reverberated from peak to peak, echoed and re-echoed, till
the rocks themselves seemed to tremble.

With quickening pulse and bated breath Darrell watched the
storm,--fascinated, entranced,--while emotions he could neither
understand nor control surged through his breast. More and more fiercely
the battle waged; more swift and brilliant grew the sword-play, while
the roar of heaven's artillery grew louder and louder. His spirit rose
with the strife, filling him with a strange sense of exaltation.

Suddenly the universe seemed wrapped in flame, there was a deafening
crash as though the eternal hills were being rent asunder, and
then--oblivion!

When that instant of blinding light and deafening sound had passed John
Darrell lay prostrate, unconscious on the rocks.




_Chapter XXVIII_

"AS A DREAM WHEN ONE AWAKETH"


As the morning sun arose over the snowy summits of the Great Divide, the
sleeper on the rocks stirred restlessly; then gradually awoke to
consciousness--a delightful consciousness of renewed life and vigor, a
subtle sense of revivification of body and mind. The racking pain, the
burning fever, the legions of torturing phantoms, all were gone; his
pulse was calm, his blood cool, his brain clear.

With a sigh of deep content he opened his eyes; then suddenly rose to a
sitting posture and gazed about him in utter bewilderment; above him
only the boundless dome of heaven, around him only endless mountain
ranges! Dazed by the strangeness, the isolation of the scene, he began
for an instant to doubt his sanity; was this a reality or a chimera of
his own imagination? But only for an instant, for with his first
movement a large collie had bounded to his side and now began licking
his hands and face with the most joyful demonstrations. There was
something soothing and reassuring in the companionship even of the dumb
brute, and he caressed the noble creature, confident that he would soon
find some sign of human life in that strange region; but the dog,
reading no look of recognition in the face beside him, drew back and
began whining piteously.

Perplexed, but with his faculties thoroughly aroused and active, the
young man sprang to his feet, and, looking eagerly about him,
discovered at a little distance the cabin against the mountain ledge.
Hastening thither he found the door open, and, after vainly waiting for
any response to his knocking, entered.

The furnishings were mostly hand-made, but fashioned with considerable
artistic skill, and contributed to give the interior a most attractive
appearance, while etchings, books and papers, pages of written
manuscript, and a violin indicated its occupants to be a man of refined
tastes and studious habits. The dog had accompanied him, sometimes
following closely, sometimes going on in advance as though to lead the
way. Once within the cabin he led him to the store-room in the rock
where was an abundance of food, which the latter proceeded to divide
between himself and his dumb guide.

Having satisfied his hunger, the young man took a newspaper from the
table, and, going outside the cabin, seated himself to await the return
of his unknown host. Sitting there, he discovered for the first time the
railway winding around the sides of the lofty mountain opposite. The
sight filled him with delight, for those slender rails, gleaming in the
morning sunlight, seemed to connect him with the world which he
remembered, but from which he appeared so strangely isolated.

Unfolding the newspaper his attention was attracted by the date, at
which he gazed in consternation, his eyes riveted to the page. For a
moment his head swam, he was unable to believe his own senses. Dropping
the sheet and bowing his head upon his hands he went carefully over the
past as he now remembered it,--the business on which he had been
commissioned to come west; his journey westward; the tragedy in the
sleeping-car--he shuddered as the memory of the murderer's face flashed
before him with terrible distinctness; his reception at The Pines,--all
was as clear as though it had happened but yesterday; it was in August,
and this was August, but two years later! Great God! had two years
dropped out of his life? Again he recalled his illness, the long agony,
the final sinking into oblivion, the strange awakening in perfect
health; yes, surely there must be a missing link; but how? where?

He rose to re-enter the cabin, and, passing the window, caught a glimpse
of his face reflected there; a face like, and yet unlike, his own, and
crowned with snow-white hair! In doubt and bewilderment he paced up and
down within the cabin, vainly striving to connect these fragmentary
parts, to reconcile the present with the past. As he passed and repassed
the table covered with manuscript his attention was attracted by an
odd-looking volume bound in flexible morocco and containing several
hundred pages of written matter. It lay partly open in a conspicuous
place, and upon the fly-leaf was written, in large, bold characters,--

     "To my Other Self, should he awaken."

He could not banish the words from his mind; they drew him with
irresistible magnetism. Again and again he read them, until, impelled by
some power he could not explain, he seized the volume and, seating
himself in the doorway of the cabin, proceeded to examine it. Lifting
the fly-leaf, he read the following inscription:

     "To one from the outer world, whose identity is hidden among the
     secrets of the past:

     "With the hope that when the veil is lifted, these pages may assist
     him in uniting into one perfect whole the strangely disjointed
     portions of his life, they are inscribed by

                                             "JOHN DARRELL."

He smiled as he read the name and recalled the circumstances under which
he had taken it, but he no longer felt any hesitation regarding the
volume in his hands, and he began to read. It was written as a
communication from one stranger to another, from the mountain recluse to
one of whose life he had not the slightest knowledge; but he knew
without doubt that it was addressed to himself, yet written by
himself,--that writer and reader were one and the same.

For more than two hours he read on and on, deeply absorbed in the tale
of that solitary life, his own heart responding to each note of joy or
sorrow, of hope or despair, and vibrating to the undertone of loneliness
and longing running through it all.

He strove vainly to recall the characters in the strange drama in which
he had played his part but of which he had now no distinct recollection;
dimly they passed before his vision like the shadowy phantoms of a dream
from which one has just awakened. He started at the first mention of
John Britton's name, eagerly following each outline of that noble
character, his heart kindling with affection as he read his words of
loving, helpful counsel. His face grew tender and his eyes filled at the
love-story, so pathetically brief, faithfully transcribed on those
pages, but of Kate Underwood he could only recall a slender girl with
golden-brown hair and wistful, appealing brown eyes; he wondered at the
strength of character shown by her speech and conduct, and his heart
went out to this unknown love, notwithstanding that memory now showed
him the picture of another and earlier love in the far East.

But it was the story of John Britton's life which moved him most. With
strained, eager eyes and bated breath he read that sad recital, and at
its termination, buried his face in his hands and sobbed like a child.

When he had grown calm he sat for some time reviewing the past and
forming plans for future action. While thus absorbed in thought he heard
a step, and, looking up, saw standing before him a man of apparently
sixty years, with bronzed face and grizzled hair, whose small, piercing
eyes regarded himself with keen scrutiny. In response to the younger
man's greeting he only bowed silently.

"You must be Peter, the hermit," the young man exclaimed; "but whoever
you are, you are welcome; I am glad to see a human face."

"And you," replied the other, slowly, "you are not the same man that you
were yesterday; you have awakened, as he said you would some day."

"As who said?" the young man questioned.

"John Britton," the other replied.

"Yes, I have awakened, and my life here is like a dream. Sit down,
Peter; I want to ask you some questions."

For half an hour they sat together, the younger man asking questions,
the other answering in as few words as possible, his keen eyes never
leaving the face of his interlocutor.

"Where is this John Britton?" the young man finally inquired.

"In Ophir--at a place called The Pines."

"I know the place; I remember it. How far is it from here?"

"Fifteen miles by rail from the station at the foot of the mountain."

"I must go to him at once; you will show me the way. How soon can we get
away from here?"

Peter glanced at the sun. "We cannot get down the trail in season for
to-day's train. We will start to-morrow morning."

Without further speech he then went into the cabin and busied himself
with his accustomed duties. When he reappeared he again stood silently
regarding the younger man with his fixed, penetrating gaze.

"What awakened you?" he asked, at length.

The abruptness of the question, as well as its tenor, startled the
other; that was a phase of the mystery surrounding himself of which he
had not even thought.

"I do not know," he replied, slowly; "that question had not occurred to
me before. What do you think? Might it not have come about in the
ordinary sequence of events?"

Peter shook his head. "Not likely," he muttered; "there must have been a
shock of some kind."

The young man smiled brightly. "Well, I cannot answer for yesterday's
events," he said, "having neither record nor recollection of the day;
but I certainly sustained a shock this morning on awaking on the bare
rocks at such an altitude as this and with no trace of a human being
visible!"

"On the rocks!" Peter repeated; "where?"

"Yonder," said the young man, indicating the direction; "come, I will
show you the exact spot."

He led the way to his rocky bed, near one end of the plateau, then
watched his companion's movements as he knelt down and carefully
inspected the rock, then, rising to his feet, looked searchingly in
every direction with his ferret-like glance.

"Ah!" the latter suddenly exclaimed, with emphasis, at the same time
pointing to a rock almost overhanging their heads.

Following the direction indicated, the young man saw a pine-tree on the
edge of the overhanging rock, the entire length of its trunk split open,
its branches shrivelled and blackened as though by fire.

Peter, notwithstanding his age, sprang up the rocks with the agility of
a panther, the younger man following more slowly. As he came up Peter
turned from an examination of the dead tree and looked at him
significantly.

"An electric shock!" he said; "that was a living tree yesterday. There
was an electric storm last night, the worst in years; it brought death
to the tree, but life to you."

To the younger man the words of the old hermit seemed incredible, but
that night brought him a strange confirmation of their truth. Upon
disrobing for the night, what was his astonishment to discover upon his
right shoulder and extending downward diagonally across the right breast
a long, blue mark of irregular, zigzag form, while running parallel with
it its entire length, perfect as though done in India ink with an
artist's pen, was the outline of the very scene surrounding him where he
lay that morning--cliff and crag and mountain peak--traced indelibly
upon the living flesh, an indubitable evidence of the power which had
finally aroused his dormant faculties and a souvenir of the lost years
which he would carry with him to his dying day.




_Chapter XXIX_

JOHN DARRELL'S STORY


On the following morning the cabin on the mountain side was closed at an
early hour, and its late occupant, accompanied by Peter and the collie,
descended the trail to the small station near the base of the mountain,
where he took leave of the old hermit. On his arrival at Ophir he
ordered a carriage and drove directly to The Pines, for he was impatient
to see John Britton at as early a date as possible, and was fearful lest
the latter, with his migratory habits, might escape him.

It was near noon when, having dismissed the carriage, he rang for
admission. He recalled the house and grounds as they appeared to him on
his first arrival, but he found it hard to realize that he was looking
upon the scenes among which most of that strange drama of the last two
years had been enacted. Mr. Underwood himself came to the door.

"Why, Darrell, my boy, how do you do?" he exclaimed, shaking hands
heartily; "thought you'd take us by surprise, eh? Got a little tired of
living alone, I guess, and thought you'd come back to your friends.
Well, it's mighty good to see you; come in; we'll have lunch in about an
hour."

To Mr. Underwood's surprise the young man did not immediately accept the
invitation to come in, but seemed to hesitate for a moment.

"I am very glad to meet you, Mr. Underwood," he responded, pleasantly,
but with a shade of reserve in his manner; "I remember you very well,
indeed, and probably yours is about the only face I will be able to
recall."

For a moment Mr. Underwood seemed staggered, unable to comprehend the
meaning of the other's words.

The young man continued: "I understand Mr. Britton is stopping with you;
is he still here, or has he left?"

"He is here," Mr. Underwood replied; "but, good God! Darrell, what does
this mean?"

Before the other could reply Mr. Britton, who was in an adjoining room
and had overheard the colloquy, came quickly forward. He gave a swift,
penetrating glance into the young man's face, then, turning to Mr.
Underwood, said,--

"It means, David, that our young friend has come to his own again. He is
no longer of our world or of us."

Then turning to the young man, he said, "I am John Britton; do you wish
to see me?"

The other looked earnestly into the face of the speaker, and his own
features betrayed emotion as he replied,--

"I do; I must see you on especially important business."

"David, you will let us have the use of your private room for a while?"
Mr. Britton inquired.

Mr. Underwood nodded silently, his eyes fixed with a troubled expression
upon the young man's face. The latter, observing his distress, said,--

"Don't think, Mr. Underwood, that I am insensible to all your kindness
to me since my coming here two years ago. I shall see you later and show
you that I am not lacking in appreciation, though I can never express
my gratitude to you; but before I can do that--before I can even tell
you who I am--it is necessary that I see Mr. Britton."

"Tut! tut!" said Mr. Underwood, gruffly; "don't talk to me of gratitude;
I don't want any; but, my God! boy, I had come to look on you almost as
my own son!" And, turning abruptly, he left the room before either of
the others could speak.

"He is a man of very strong feelings," said Mr. Britton, leading the way
to Mr. Underwood's room; "and, to tell the truth, this is a pretty hard
blow to each of us, although we should have prepared ourselves for it.
Be seated, my son."

Seating himself beside the young man and again looking into his face, he
said,--

"I see that the day has dawned; when did the light come, and how?"

Briefly the other related his awakening on the rocks and the events
which followed down to his finding and reading the journal which
recorded so faithfully the history of the missing years, Mr. Britton
listening with intense interest. At last the young man said,--

"Of all the records of that journal, there was nothing that interested
me so greatly or moved me so deeply as did the story of your own life.
That is what brought me here to-day. I have come to tell you my
story,--the story of John Darrell, as you have known him,--and possibly
you may find it in some ways a counterpart to your own."

"I was drawn towards you in some inexplicable way from our first
meeting," Mr. Britton replied, slowly; "you became as dear to me as a
son, so that I gave you in confidence the story that no other human
being has ever heard. It is needless to say that I appreciate this mark
of your confidence in return, and that you can rest assured of my
deepest interest in anything concerning yourself."

The younger man drew his chair nearer his companion. "As you already
know," he said, "I am a mine expert. I came out here on a commission for
a large eastern syndicate, and as there was likely to be lively
competition and I wished to remain incognito, I took the name of John
Darrell, which in reality was a part of my own name. My home is in New
York State. I was a country-bred boy, brought up on one of those great
farms which abound a little north of the central part of the State; but,
though country-bred, I was not a rustic, for my mother, who was my
principal instructor until I was about fourteen years of age, was a
woman of refinement and culture. My mother and I lived at her father's
house--a beautiful country home; but even while a mere child I became
aware that there was some kind of an unpleasant secret in our family. My
grandfather would never allow my father's name mentioned, and he had
little love for me as his child; but my earliest recollections of my
mother are of her kneeling with me night after night in prayer, teaching
me to love and revere the father I had never known, who, she told me,
was 'gone away,' and to pray always for his welfare and for his return.
At fourteen I was sent away to a preparatory school, and afterwards to
college. Then, as I developed a taste for mineralogy and metallurgy, I
took a course in the Columbian School of Mines. By this time I had
learned that while it was generally supposed my mother was a widow,
there were those, my grandfather among them, who believed that my father
had deserted her. My first intimation of this was an insinuation to that
effect by my grandfather himself, soon after my graduation. I was an
athlete and already had a good position at a fair salary, and so great
was my love and reverence for my father's name that I told the old
gentleman that nothing but his white hairs saved him from a sound
thrashing, and that at the first repetition of any such insinuation I
would take my mother from under his roof and provide a home for her
myself. That sufficed to silence him effectually, for he idolized her.
After this little episode I went to my mother and begged her to tell me
the secret regarding my father."

The young man paused for a moment, his dark eyes gazing earnestly into
the clear gray eyes watching him intently; then, without shifting his
gaze, he continued, in low tones:

"She told me that about a year before my birth she and my father were
married against her father's will, his only objection to the marriage
being that my father was poor. She told me of their happy married life
that followed, but that my father was ambitious, and the consciousness
of poverty and the fact that he could not provide for her as he wished
galled him. She told me how, when there was revealed to them the promise
of a new love and life within their little home, he redoubled his
efforts to do for her and hers, and then, dissatisfied with what he
could accomplish there, went out into the new West to build a home for
his little family. She told of the brave, loving letters that came so
faithfully and the generous remittances to provide for every possible
need in the coming emergency. Then Fortune beckoned him still farther
west, and he obeyed, daring the dangers of that strange, wild country
for the love he bore his wife and his unborn child. From that country
only one letter ever was received from him. Just at that time I was
born, and my life came near costing hers who bore me. For weeks she lay
between life and death, so low that the report of her death reached her
parents, bringing them broken-hearted and, as they supposed, too late to
her humble home. They found her yet living and threw their love and
their wealth into the battle against death. In all this time no news
came from the great West. As soon as she could be moved my mother and
her child were taken to her father's home. Her father forgave her, but
he had no forgiveness for her husband and no love for his child. He
tried to make my mother believe her husband had deserted her, but she
was loyal in her trust in him as in her love for him. She named her
child for his father, 'John,' but as her father would not allow the name
repeated in his hearing she gave him the additional name of 'Darrell,'
by which he was universally known; but in those sacred hours when she
told me of my father and taught me to pray for him, she always called me
by his name, 'John Britton.'"

As he ceased speaking both men rose simultaneously to their feet. The
elder man placed his hands upon the shoulders of the younger, and,
standing thus face to face, they looked into each other's eyes as though
each were reading the other's inmost soul.

"What was your mother's name?" Mr. Britton asked, in low tones.

"Patience--Patience Jewett," replied the other.

Mr. Britton bowed his head with deep emotion, and father and son were
clasped in each other's arms.

When they had grown calm enough for speech Mr. Britton's first words
were of his wife.

"What of your mother, my son,--was she living when you came west?"

"Yes, but her health was delicate, and I am fearful of the effects of my
long absence; it must have been a terrible strain upon her. As soon as I
reached the city this morning I telegraphed an old schoolmate for
tidings of her, and I am expecting an answer any moment."

They talked of the strange chain of circumstances which had brought them
together and of the mysterious bond by which they had been so closely
united while as yet unconscious of their relationship. The summons to
lunch recalled them to the present. As they rose to leave the room Mr.
Britton threw his arm affectionately about Darrell's shoulders,
exclaiming,--

"My son! Mine! and I have loved you as such from the first time I looked
into your eyes! If God will now only permit me to see my beloved wife
again, I can ask nothing more!"

And as Darrell gazed at the noble form, towering slightly above his own,
and looked into the depths of those gray eyes, penetrating, fearless,
yet tender as a woman's, he felt that however sweet and sacred had been
the friendship between them in the past, it was as naught compared with
the infinitely sweeter and holier relationship of father and son.

They passed into the dining-room where Mr. Underwood and Mrs. Dean
awaited them, a look of eager expectancy on both faces, the wistful
expression of Mrs. Dean as she watched for the first token of
recognition on Darrell's part being almost pathetic.

Mr. Britton, who had entered slightly in advance, paused half-way across
the room, and, placing his hand on Darrell's shoulder, said, in a voice
which vibrated with emotion,--

"My dear friends, Mrs. Dean and Mr. Underwood, allow me to introduce my
son, John Darrell Britton!"

There, was a moment of strained silence in which only the labored
breathing of Mr. Underwood could be heard.

"Do you mean that you have adopted him?" Mr. Underwood asked, slowly,
seeming to speak with difficulty.

"No, David; he is my own flesh and blood--my legitimate son; I will
explain later."

Mrs. Dean and Darrell had clasped hands and were scanning each other's
faces.

"John, do you remember me?" she asked, with trembling lips.

Darrell bent his head and kissed her. "I do, Mrs. Dean," he replied.

She smiled, at the same time wiping away a tear with the corner of her
white apron.

"I don't think I could have borne it if you hadn't," she remarked,
simply; then, shaking hands with Mr. Britton, she added:

"I congratulate you, Mr. Britton; I congratulate you both. If ever there
were two who ought to be father and son, you are the two."

Mr. Underwood wrung Darrell's hand. "I congratulate you, boy, and I'm
mighty glad to find you're not a stranger to us, after all."

Then, grasping his old-time partner's hand, he added: "Jack, you old
fraud! You've always got the best of me on every bargain, but I forgive
you this time. I wanted the boy myself, but you seem to have the best
title, so there's no use to try to jump your claim."

Lunch was just over as a messenger was announced, and a moment later a
telegram was handed to Darrell. As he opened the missive his fingers
trembled and Mr. Britton's face grew pale. Darrell hastily read the
contents, then met his father's anxious glance with a reassuring smile.

"She is living and in usual health, though my friend says she is much
more delicate than when I left."

"We must go to her at once, my boy," said Mr. Britton; "how soon can you
leave?"

"In a very few hours, father; when do you wish to start?"

Mr. Britton consulted a time-table. "The east-bound express leaves at
ten-thirty to-night; can we make that?"

"Sure!" Darrell responded, with an enthusiasm new to his western
friends; "you can't start too soon for me, and there isn't a train that
travels fast enough to take me to that little mother of mine, especially
with the good news I have for her."

Half an hour later, as he was hastily gathering together his
possessions, he came suddenly upon a picture, at sight of which he
paused, then stood spellbound, all else for the time forgotten. It was a
portrait of Kate Underwood, taken in the gown she had worn on that night
of her first reception. It served as a connecting link between the past
and present. Gazing at it he was able to understand how the young girl
whom he faintly remembered had grown into the strong, sweet character
delineated in the recorded story of his love. He was able to recall some
of the scenes portrayed there; he recalled her as she stood that day on
the "Divide," her head uncovered, her gleaming hair like a halo about
her face, her eyes shining with a light that was not of earth.

He kissed the picture reverently. "Sweet angel of my dream!" he
murmured; "come what may, you hold, and always will, a place in my heart
which no other can ever take from you. I will lay your sweet face away,
never again to be lifted from its hiding-place until I can look upon it
as the face of my betrothed."

His trunk was packed, his preparations for departure nearly complete,
when there came a gentle tap at his door, and Mrs. Dean entered.

"I was afraid," she said, speaking with some hesitation, "that you might
think it strange if you did not see Katherine, and I wanted to explain
that she is away. She went out of town, to be gone for a few days. She
will be very sorry when she returns to find that she has missed seeing
you."

"Thank you, Mrs. Dean," said Darrell, slowly; "on some accounts I would
have been very glad to meet Kate; but on the whole I think perhaps it is
better as it is."

"I don't suppose you remember her except as you saw her when you first
came," Mrs. Dean added, wistfully; "I should like to have you see her as
she is now. I think she has matured into a beautiful young woman."

"Yes, I remember her, Mrs. Dean; she is beautiful."

"Oh, do you? She will be glad to hear that!" Mrs. Dean exclaimed, with a
happy smile.

Darrell came nearer and took her hands within his own. "Will you give
her a message from me, just as I give it to you? She will understand."

"Oh, yes; gladly."

"Tell her," said Darrell, and his voice trembled slightly, "I remember
her. Tell her I will see her 'at the time appointed;' and that I never
forget!"




_Chapter XXX_

AFTER MANY YEARS


The evening train, as it was known,--a local from the south,--was
approaching the little village of Ellisburg, winding its way over miles
of rolling country dotted with farm-houses of snowy white; to the east,
rough, rugged hills surmounted by a wall of forest, while far to the
west could be seen the sandy beaches and blue waters of Lake Ontario.

The arrival of this train formed one of the chief events in the daily
life of the little town, and each summer evening found a group of from
twenty to fifty of the village folk awaiting its incoming. To them it
afforded a welcome break in the monotony of their lives, a fleeting
glimpse of people and things from that vague world outside the horizon
bounding their own.

Amid the usual handful of passengers left at the station on this
particular evening were two who immediately drew the attention of the
crowd. Two men, one something over fifty years of age, tall, with erect
form and dark hair well silvered, and with a grave, sweet face; the
other not more than seven-and-twenty, but with hair as white as snow,
while his face wore an inscrutable look, as though the dark, piercing
eyes held within their depths secrets which the sphinx-like lips would
not reveal. Closely following them was a splendid collie, trying in
various ways to give expression to his delight at being released from
the confinement of the baggage-car.

There was a sudden, swift movement in the crowd as a young man stepped
quickly forward and grasped the younger of the two by the hand.

"Darrell, old boy! is this you?" he exclaimed; "Great Scott! what have
you been doing to yourself these two years?"

"Plenty of time for explanations later," said Darrell, shaking hands
heartily; "Ned, I want you to know my father; father, this is my old
chum, now Dr. Elliott."

The young physician's face betrayed astonishment, but he shook hands
with Mr. Britton with no remarks beyond the customary greeting.

"Now, Ned," continued Darrell, "get us out of this mob as quickly as you
can; I don't want to be recognized here."

"Not much danger with that white pate of yours; but come this way, my
carriage is waiting. I did not let out that you were coming back, for I
thought you wouldn't want any demonstration from the crowd here, so I
told no one but father; he's waiting for you in the carriage."

"You're as level-headed as ever," Darrell remarked.

They reached the carriage, greetings were exchanged with Mr. Elliott,
and soon the party was driving rapidly towards the village.

"We will go at once to my office," Dr. Elliott remarked to Darrell, who
was seated beside himself; "we can make arrangements there as to the
best method of breaking this news to your mother."

"You have told her nothing, then?" Darrell inquired.

"No; life has so many uncertainties and she has already suffered so
much. You had a long journey before you; if anything had happened to
detain you, it was better not to have her in suspense."

"You were right," Darrell replied; "you know I left all that to your own
judgment."

"Darrell, old boy," said the doctor, inspecting his companion
critically, "do satisfy my curiosity: is that white hair genuine or a
wig donned for the occasion?"

"What reason could I have for any such masquerading?" Darrell demanded;
"when you come to know my experience for the past two years you will not
wonder that my hair is white."

"I beg your pardon, old fellow; I meant no offence. We had all given you
up for dead--all but your mother; and your telegram nearly knocked me
off my feet."

Here the doctor drew rein, and, fastening the horses outside, they
entered his office, a small, one-story building standing close to the
street in one corner of the great dooryard of his father's home, and
sheltered alike from sun and storm by giant maples.

After brief consultation it was decided that as Dr. Elliott and his
father were frequent callers at the Jewett home, the entire party would
drive out there, and, in the probable event of not seeing Mrs. Britton,
who was an invalid and retired at an early hour, Darrell and his father
would spend the night at the old homestead, but their presence would not
be known by the wife and mother until the following morning.

"You see, sir," Dr. Elliott remarked to Mr. Britton, "your coming has
complicated matters a little. I would not apprehend any danger from the
meeting between Mrs. Britton and her son, for she has looked for his
return every day; but I cannot say what might be the result of the shock
her nervous system would sustain in meeting you. We are safe, however,
in going out there this evening, for she always retires to her room
before this time."

Both Mr. Britton and Darrell grew silent as the old Jewett homestead
came in view. It was a wide-spreading house of colonial build, snowy
white with green shutters and overrun with climbing roses and
honeysuckle vines. It stood back at a little distance from the street,
and a broad walk, under interlacing boughs of oak, elm, and maple, led
from the street to the lofty pillared veranda across its front. The full
moon was rising opposite, its mellow light throwing every twig and
flower into bold relief. Two figures could be seen seated within the
veranda, and as the carriage stopped Dr. Elliott remarked,--

"I was right; Mr. Jewett and his elder daughter are sitting outside, but
Mrs. Britton has retired."

As the four men alighted and proceeded up the walk towards the house
strangely varied emotions surged through the breasts of Darrell and his
father. To one this was his childhood's home, the only home of which he
had any distinct memory; to the other it was the home to which long ago
he had been welcomed as a friend, but from which he had been banished as
a lover. But all reminiscent thoughts were suddenly put to flight.

They had advanced only about half-way up the walk when one of the long,
old-fashioned windows upon the veranda was hastily thrown open and a
slender figure robed in a white dressing-gown came with swift but
tremulous steps down the walk to meet them, crying, in glad accents,--

"Oh, my son! my son! you have come, as I knew you would some day!"

Darrell sprang forward and caught his mother in his arms, and then,
unable to speak, held her close to his breast, his tears falling on her
upturned face, while she caressed him and crooned fond words of
endearment as in the days when she had held him in her arms. Dr.
Elliott and his father stood near, nonplussed, uncertain what to do or
what course to take. The old gentleman on the veranda left his seat and
took a few steps towards the group, as though to assist his daughter to
the house, but Dr. Elliott motioned him to remain where he was. Mr.
Britton, scarcely able to restrain his feelings, yet fearful of
agitating his wife, had withdrawn slightly to one side, but
unconsciously was standing so that the moonlight fell full across his
face.

At that instant Mrs. Britton raised her head, and, seeing the familiar
faces of Dr. Elliott and his father, looked at the solitary figure as
though to see who it might be. Their eyes met, his shining with the
old-time love with which he had looked on her as she stood a bride on
that summer evening crowned with the sunset rays, only a thousand-fold
more tender. She gave a startled glance, then raised her arms to him
with one shrill, sweet cry,--the cry of the lone night-bird for its
mate,--

"John!"

"Patience!" came the responsive note, deep, resonant, tender.

He held her folded within his arms until he suddenly felt the fragile
form grow limp in his clasp, then, lifting her, he bore her tenderly up
the walk, past the bewildered father and sister, into the house, Dr.
Elliott leading the way, and laid her on a couch in her own room.

She was soon restored to consciousness, and, though able to say little,
lay feasting her eyes alternately upon the face of husband and son, her
glance, however, returning oftener and dwelling longer on the face of
the lover, who, after more than twenty-seven years of absence, was a
lover still.




_Chapter XXXI_

AN EASTERN HOME


Within a few days Darrell and his father were domiciled in the Jewett
homestead, the physicians pronouncing it unwise to attempt to remove
Mrs. Britton to another home.

To Experience Jewett, who reigned supreme in her father's house, it
seemed as though two vandals had invaded her domain, so ruthlessly did
they open up the rooms for years jealously guarded from sunshine and
dust, while her cherished household gods were removed by sacrilegious
hands from their time-honored niches and consigned to the ignominy of
obscure back chambers or the oblivion of the garret.

Under Mr. Britton's supervision, soon after his arrival, the great
double parlors, which had not been used since the funeral of Mrs. Jewett
some seven years before, were thrown wide open, Sally, the "help,"
standing with open mouth and arms akimbo, aghast at such proceedings,
while Miss Jewett executed a lively quick-step in pursuit of a moth,
which, startled by the unusual light, was circling above her head.

Not only were the gayly flowered Brussels carpet and the black haircloth
furniture the same as when he had been a guest in those rooms nearly
thirty years before, but each piece of furniture occupied the same
position as then. He smiled as he noted the arm-chair by one of the
front windows, to which he had been invariably assigned and in which he
had slipped and slid throughout each evening to the detriment of the
crocheted "tidy" pinned upon its back. The vases and candlesticks upon
the mantel were arranged with the same mathematical precision. He could
detect only one change, which was that to the collection of family
photographs framed and hanging above the mantel, there had been added a
portrait of the late Mrs. Jewett.

Within a week the old furnishings had been relegated to other parts of
the house and modern upholstery had taken their places, the soft subdued
tints of which blended harmoniously, forming a general impression of
warmth and light.

Most of these innovations Miss Jewett viewed with disfavor, particularly
the staining of the floors preparatory to laying down two Turkish rugs
of exquisite coloring and design.

"I don't see any use in being so skimping with the carpets," she
remarked to Sally; "if I'd been in his place I'd have got enough to
cover the whole floor while I was about it, even if I'd bought something
a little cheaper. A carpet with bare floor showing all 'round it puts me
in mind of Dick's hat-band that went part way 'round and stopped."

"That's jest what it does!" Sally assented.

"I wanted to lay down some strips of carpeting along the edges, but he
wouldn't hear to it," Miss Jewett continued, regretfully.

"I s'pose," Sally remarked, sagely, "it's all on account of livin' out
west along with them wild Injuns and cow-boys so many years. Western
folks 'most always has queer ideas about things."

"I never would have believed it to see such overturnings in my house!"
exclaimed Miss Jewett, with a sigh; "and if 'twas anybody but John
Britton I wouldn't stand it. I wonder if he won't be telling me how to
make butter and raise chickens and turkeys next!"

"Mebbe he'll bring 'round one o' them new-fangled contrivances for
hatchin' chickens without hens," Sally ventured, with a laugh; adding,
reflectively, "I wonder why, when they was about it, they didn't invent
a machine to lay aigs as well as hatch 'em; that would 'ave been a
savin', for a hen's keep don't amount to much when she's settin', but
they're powerful big eaters generally."

Miss Jewett prided herself upon her thrift and economy; her well-kept
house where nothing was allowed to go to waste; her spotless dairy-rooms
and rolls of golden butter which never failed to bring a cent and a half
more a pound than any other; her fine breeds of poultry which annually
carried off the blue ribbons at the county fair. She had achieved a
local reputation of which she was quite proud; she would brook no
interference in her management of household affairs, and, as she said,
no one but John Britton would ever have been allowed to infringe upon
her established rules and regulations. There had been a time when she
had shared equally with her sister John Britton's attentions. It had
been the only bit of romance in her life, but a lingering sweetness from
it still remained in her heart through all the commonplace years that
had followed, like the faint perfume from rose-leaves, faded and
shrivelled, but cherished as sacred mementos. She had not blamed him for
choosing her younger and more attractive sister, and she had secretly
admired her sister for braving their father's displeasure to marry him.
And now she was glad that he had returned; glad for his own sake that
the imputations cast upon him by her father and others were refuted; for
her sister's sake, that her last days should be so brightened and
glorified; but deep within her heart, glad for her own sake, because it
was good to look upon his face and hear his voice again.

Sally's strident tones broke in upon her retrospection:

"There's one thing, Miss Jewett, I guess you needn't be afeard they'll
meddle with, and that's your cookin'. Mr. Darrell, he was tellin' me
about the prices people had to pay for meals on them
eatin'-cars,--'diners' he called 'em,--and I told him there wasn't no
vittles on earth worth any such price as that, and I up and asked him
whether they was as good as the vittles he gets here, and he laughed and
said there wasn't nobody could beat his Aunt Espey at cookin'."

Miss Jewett's eyes brightened. "Bless the boy's heart!" she exclaimed;
"I'm glad they're going to be here for Thanksgiving; I'll see that they
get such a dinner as they neither of them ever dreamed of!"

Darrell had won a warm place in her heart in his baby days with his
earliest efforts to speak her name. "Espey" had been the result of his
first attack on the formidable name of "Experience," and "Aunt Espey"
she had been to him ever since.

Her father, Hosea Jewett, was a hale, hearty man of upward of seventy,
hard and unyielding as the granite ledges cropping out along the
hill-sides of his farm, and with a face gnarled and weather-beaten as
the oaks before his door. He was scrupulously honest, but exacting,
relentless, unforgiving.

He was not easily reconciled to the new order of things, but for his
daughter's sake he held his peace. Then, too, though he never forgave
John Britton for having married his daughter, yet John Britton as a man
whose wealth exceeded even his own was an altogether different person
from the ambitious but impecunious lover of thirty years before. He had
never forgiven Darrell for being John Britton's son, but mingled with
his long-cherished animosity was a secret pride in the splendid physical
and intellectual manhood of this sole representative of his own line.

Between the sisters there had been few points of resemblance. Patience
Jewett had been of an ardent, emotional nature, passionately fond of
music, a great reader, and with little taste for the household tasks in
which her more practical sister delighted. Having a more delicate
constitution, she had little share in the busy routine of farm life, but
was allowed to follow her own inclinations. She was still absorbed in
her music and studies when Love found her, and the woman within her
awoke at his call.

After Darrell's birth her health was seriously impaired. It seemed as
though her faith in her husband, her belief that he would one day
return, and her love for her son were the only ties holding soul and
body together, and, with her natural religious tendencies, the spiritual
nature developed at the expense of the physical. Since Darrell's strange
disappearance she had failed rapidly.

With the return of her husband and son she seemed temporarily to renew
her hold on life, appearing stronger than for many months. For the first
few days much of her time was spent at her piano, singing with her
husband the old songs of their early love, but oftenest a favorite of
his which she had sung during the years of his absence, and which
Darrell had sung on that night at The Pines following his discovery of
the violin,--"Loyal to Love and Thee."

Her delight in the rooms newly fitted up for her was unbounded, and
against the background of their subdued, warm tints she made a
strikingly beautiful picture, with her sweet, spirituelle face crowned
with waving silver hair.

Either Darrell or his father, or both, were constantly with her, for
they realized that the time was short in which to make amends for the
missing years. She loved to listen to her husband's tales of the great
West or to bits which Darrell read from his journal of that strange
chapter of his own life.

"You have not yet asked after your sweetheart, Darrell," his mother said
one evening soon after his arrival, as they sat awaiting his father's
return from a short stroll.

"You are my sweetheart now, little mother," he replied, kissing the hand
that lay within his own.

"Does that mean that you care less for Marion than before you went
away?" she queried.

"No," Darrell answered, slowly; "I cannot say that my regard for her has
decreased. I may have changed in some respects, but not in my feelings
towards Marion. I will ask you a question, mother: Do you think she
still cares for me as before I left home?"

"I hardly know how to answer you, because, as you know, Marion is so
silent and secretive. I never could understand the girl. To be candid,
Darrell dear, I never could understand why you should care for her, and
I never thought she cared for you as she ought."

"You know, mother, how I came to be attracted to her in the first place;
we were schoolmates, and you know she was an exceptionally brilliant
girl, and different from most of the others. We were interested in the
same subjects, and naturally there sprang up quite an intimacy between
us. Then we corresponded while I was at college, and her letters were so
bright and entertaining that my admiration for her increased. I thought
her the most brilliant and the best girl, every way, in all my
acquaintance, and I think so still."

"But, my dear boy," his mother exclaimed, "admiration is not love; I
don't believe you ever really loved her, and she always seemed to me to
be all brains and no heart--one of those cold, silent natures incapable
of loving."

"I think you are wrong there, mother. Marion is silent, but I don't
believe she is cold or incapable of loving. She may, or may not, be
incapable of expressing it, but I believe she could love very deeply and
sincerely were her love once awakened."

"You know she has taken up the study of medicine?"

"Ned Elliott told me she had been studying with Dr. Parker for about a
year."

"Dr. Parker tells me she is making remarkable progress."

"I don't doubt it, mother; she will probably make a success of it; she
is just the woman to do so."

"There never was any mention of love between you two, was there, or any
engagement?" Darrell's mother asked, with some hesitation, after a brief
silence.

"None whatever," he replied, then added, with a smile: "We considered
ourselves in love at the time,--at least, I did; but as I look back now
it seems a very Platonic affair; but I thought I loved her, and I think
she loved me."

"You say, Darrell, that your regard for her is unchanged?"

"Yes; the same as ever."

"But you do not think now that you love her or loved her then?"

"No, mother; I know I do not, and did not."

"Then, Darrell, my boy, some one else has taught you what love really
is?"

For answer Darrell bowed his head in assent over his mother's hand.

For a few moments she silently stroked his hair as in his boyish days;
then she said, in low tones,--

"Answer me one question, Darrell: Was she a good, pure woman?"

Darrell raised his head, his eyes looking straight into the searching
dark eyes, so like his own.

"My little mother," he replied, tenderly, "don't think that your
teachings all the past years or the lessons of your own sweet life were
lost in those two years; their influence lived even when memory had
failed."

He bent and kissed her, then added: "She was scarcely more than a child;
not so brilliant, perhaps, as Marion, but beautiful, good, and pure as
the driven snow."

Hearing his father's voice outside, Darrell rose and, picking up his
journal, opened it at the story of his love and Kate's. Then placing it
open upon a table beside his mother, he said,--

"There, mother, is the story of my Dream-Love, as I call her. Read it,
and if you should wish to know anything further regarding it, ask my
father, for he knows all."




_Chapter XXXII_

MARION HOLMES


The following day when Darrell entered his mother's rooms he found her
with his journal lying open before her. Looking up with a smile, she
said,--

"Darrell, my dear, I would like to meet your 'Kathie,' but that can
never be in this world. But you will meet her again, and when you do,
give her a mother's love and blessing from me."

Then, laying her hand on his arm, she added: "I understand now your
question regarding Marion. As I told you, it is difficult to judge
anything about her real feelings. For the first year after you went away
she came often to see me and frequently inquired for tidings of you, but
this last year she has seemed different. She has come here less
frequently and seldom referred to you, and appeared so engrossed in her
studies I concluded she had little thought or care for you. I may have
misjudged her, but even were that so and she did care for you still, you
would not marry her now, loving another as you do, would you?"

Darrell smiled as he met his mother's eager, questioning gaze. "If I had
won the love of a girl like Marion Holmes," he said, "I would do nothing
that would seem like trifling with that love; but, in justice to all
parties concerned, herself in particular, I would never marry her
without first giving her enough knowledge of the facts in the case that
she would thoroughly understand the situation."

His mother seemed satisfied. "Marion has brains, whether she has a
heart or not," she replied, with quiet emphasis; "and a girl of brains
would never marry a man under such circumstances."

Handing him his journal she pointed with a smile to its inscription.

"'Until the day break,'" she quoted; "that has been my daily watchword
all these years; strange that you, too, should have chosen it as your
own."

Had Darrell gone to his aunt for a gauge of Marion Holmes's feelings
towards himself she could have informed him more correctly than his
mother. She, with an old love hidden so deeply in her heart that no one
even suspected its existence, understood the silent, reticent girl far
better than her emotional, demonstrative sister.

A few days after moving into the rooms newly fitted up for her Mrs.
Britton gave what she termed "a little house-warming," to which were
invited a few old-time friends of her own and Mr. Britton's, together
with some of Darrell's associates. Among the latter Marion was, of
course, included, but happening at the time to be out of town, she did
not receive the invitation until two days afterwards. Meantime, Darrell,
who was anxious to meet the syndicate from whom he had received his
western commission two years before, left on the following day for New
York City. Consequently when Marion, upon her return, called on Mrs.
Britton to explain her absence, Darrell was away.

Marion Holmes was, as Mrs. Britton had said, a silent girl; not from any
habitual self-repression, but from an inherent inability to express her
deeper feelings. Hers was one of those dumb speechless souls, that,
finding no means of communicating with others, unable to get in touch
with those about them, go on their silent, lonely ways, no one dreaming
of the depth of feeling or wealth of affection they really possess.

The eldest child of a widowed mother, in moderate circumstances, her
life had been one of constant restriction and self-denial. Her
association with Darrell marked a new epoch in the dreary years. For the
first time within her memory there was something each morning to which
she could look forward with pleasant anticipation; something to look
back upon with pleasure when the day was done. As their intimacy grew
her happiness increased, and when he returned from college with high
honors her joy was unbounded. Brought up in a home where there was
little demonstration of affection, she did not look for it here; she
loved and supposed herself loved in return, else how could there be such
an affinity between them? The depth of her love for Darrell Britton she
herself did not know until his strange disappearance; then she learned
the place he had filled in her heart and life by the void that remained.
As months passed without tidings of him she lost hope. Unable to endure
the blank monotony of her home life she took up the study of medicine,
partly to divert her mind and also as a means of future self-support
more remunerative than teaching.

With the news of Darrell's return, hope sprang into new life, and it was
with a wild, sweet joy, which would not be stilled, pulsating through
her heart, that she went to call on Mrs. Britton.

She had a nature supersensitive, and as she entered Mrs. Britton's rooms
her heart sank and her whole soul recoiled as from a blow. With her
limited means and her multiplicity of home duties her outings had been
confined to the small towns within a short distance of her native
village. These rooms, in such marked contrast to everything to which
she had been accustomed, were to her a revelation of something beyond
her of which she had had no conception; a revelation also that her
comrade of by-gone days had grown away from her, beyond her--beyond even
her reach or ken.

Quietly, with a strange, benumbing pain, she noted every detail as she
answered Mrs. Britton's inquiries, but conscious of the lack of affinity
between herself and Darrell's mother, it seemed to her that the dark
eyes regarding her so searchingly must read with what hopes she had
come, and how those hopes had died. She was glad Darrell was not at
home; she could not have met him then and there. But so quiet were her
words and manner, so like her usual demeanor, that Mrs. Britton said to
herself, as Marion took leave,--

"I was right; she cares for Darrell only as a mere acquaintance."

On her return she entered the parlor of her own home and stood for some
moments gazing silently about her. How shabby, how pitiably bare and
meagre and colorless! An emblem of her own life! Throwing herself upon
the threadbare little sofa where she and Darrell had spent so many happy
hours reviewing their studies and talking of hopes and plans for the
future, she burst into such bitter, passionate weeping as only natures
like hers can know.

Darrell's trip proved successful beyond his anticipations. He found the
leading members of the syndicate, to whom he explained his two years'
absence and into whose possession he gave the money intrusted to his
keeping. So delighted were they to see him after having given him up for
dead, and so pleased were they with his honesty and integrity that they
tendered him his old position with them, offering to continue his
salary from the date of his western commission. This offer he promptly
declined, declaring that he would undertake no commissions or enter into
no business agreements during his mother's present state of health.

He had taken with him the completed manuscript of his geological work,
and this, through the influence of one or two members of the syndicate,
he succeeded in placing with a publishing house making a specialty of
scientific works.

These facts, communicated to his parents, soon reached Miss Jewett,
filling her with a pride and delight that knew no bounds. Ellisburg had
no daily paper, but it possessed a few individuals of the gentler sex
who as advertising mediums answered almost as well, and whom Miss Jewett
included among her acquaintance. She suddenly remembered a number of
calls which her household duties had hitherto prevented her returning,
and decided that this was the most opportune time for paying them.
Ordering her carriage and donning her best black silk gown, she
proceeded with due ceremony to make her round of calls, judiciously
dropping a few words here and there, which, like the seed sown on good
ground, brought forth fruit, thirty, sixty, and a hundred-fold. As a
result Darrell, upon his return, found himself a literary star of the
first magnitude,--the cynosure of all eyes.

These reports reaching Marion only widened the gulf which she felt now
intervened between herself and Darrell.

Almost immediately upon his return Darrell called upon her. She was at
home, but sent a younger sister to admit him while she nerved herself
for the dreaded interview. As he awaited her coming he looked around him
with a sort of wonder. Each object seemed familiar, and yet, was it
possible this was the room that used to seem so bright and pleasant as
he and Marion conned their lessons together? Had it changed, he
wondered, or had he?

Marion's entrance put a stop to his musings. He sprang to meet her, she
advanced slowly. She had changed very little. Her face, unless animated,
was always serious, determined; it was a shade more determined, almost
stern, but it had the same strong, intellectual look which had always
distinguished it and for which he had admired it.

Darrell, on the contrary, was greatly changed. Marion, gazing at the
snow-white hair, the dark eyes with their piercing, inscrutable look,
the firmly set mouth, and noting the bearing of conscious strength and
power, was unable to recognize her quondam schoolmate until he spoke;
the voice and smile were the same as of old!

They clasped hands for an instant, then Darrell, as in the old days,
dropped easily into one corner of the little sofa, supposing she would
take her accustomed place in the other corner, but, instead, she drew a
small rocker opposite and facing him, in which she seated herself. His
manner was cordial and free as, after a few inquiries regarding herself,
he spoke of his absence, touching lightly upon his illness and its
strange consequences, and expressed his joy at finding himself at home
once more.

She was kind and sympathetic, but her manner was constrained. She could
not banish the remembrance of her call upon his mother, of the contrast
between his home and hers; and as he talked something indefinable in his
language, in his very movements and gestures, revealed to her sensitive
nature a contrast, a difference, between them; he had somehow reached
ground to which she could not attain. He drew her out to speak of her
new studies and congratulated her upon her progress; but the call was
not a success, socially or otherwise.

When Darrell left the house he believed more firmly than ever that
Marion had loved him in the past. Whether she had ceased to love him he
could not then determine; time would tell.

During the weeks that followed there were numerous gatherings of a
social and informal nature where Darrell and Marion were thrown in each
other's society, but, though he still showed a preference for her over
the girls of his acquaintance, she shrank from his attentions, avoiding
him whenever she could do so without causing remark.

Thanksgiving Day came, and Miss Jewett's guests were compelled to admit
that she had surpassed herself. The dinner was one long to be
remembered. Her prize turkey occupied the place of honor, flanked on one
side by a roast duck, superbly browned, and on the other by an immense
chicken pie, while savory vegetables, crisp pickles, and tempting
relishes such as she only could concoct crowded the table in every
direction. A huge plum-pudding headed the second course, with an almost
endless retinue of pies,--mince, pumpkin, and apple,--while golden
custards and jellies--red, purple, and amber, of currant, grape, and
peach--brought up the rear. A third course of fruits and nuts followed,
but by that time scarcely any one was able to do more than make a
pretence of eating.

To this dinner were invited the minister and his wife, one or two
far-removed cousins who usually put in an appearance at this season of
the year, Marion Holmes, and a decrepit old lady, a former friend of
Mrs. Jewett's, who confided to the minister's wife that she had eaten a
very light breakfast and no lunch whatever in order that she might be
able to "do justice to Experience's dinner."

Marion Holmes was not there, and Darrell, meeting her on the street the
next day, playfully took her to task.

"Why were you not at dinner yesterday?" he inquired; "have you no more
regard for my feelings than to leave me to be sandwiched between the
parson's wife and old Mrs. Pettigrew?"

"I might have gone had I known such a fate as that awaited you," she
replied, laughing; "but," she added with some spirit, thinking it best
to come to the point at once, "I can see no reason for thrusting myself
into your family gatherings simply because you and I were good comrades
in the past."

"Were we not something more than merely good comrades, Marion?" he
asked, anxious to ascertain her real feelings towards himself; "it
seemed to me we were, or at least that we thought we were."

"That may be," she answered, her color rising slightly; "but if we
thought so then, that is no reason for deceiving ourselves any longer."

She intended to mislead him, and she did.

"Very well," he replied; "we will not deceive ourselves; we will have a
good understanding with ourselves and with each other. Is there any
reason why we should not be at least good comrades now?"

"I know of none," she answered, meeting his eyes without wavering.

"Then let us act as such, and not like two silly children, afraid of
each other. Is that a compact?" he asked, smiling and extending his
hand.

"It is," she replied, smiling brightly in return as their hands clasped,
thus by word and act renouncing her dearest hopes without his dreaming
of the sacrifice.




_Chapter XXXIII_

INTO THE FULNESS OF LIFE


With the opening of cold weather the seeming betterment in Mrs.
Britton's health proved but temporary. As the winter advanced she failed
rapidly, until, unable to sit up, she lay on a low couch, wheeled from
room to room to afford all the rest and change possible. Day by day her
pallor grew more and more like the waxen petals of the lily, while the
fatal rose flush in her cheek deepened, and her eyes, unnaturally large
and lustrous, had in them the look of those who dwell in the borderland.

She realized her condition as fully as those about her, but there was
neither fear nor regret in the eyes, which, fixed on the glory invisible
to them, caught and reflected the light of the other world, till, in the
last days, those watching her saw her face "as it had been the face of
an angel."

No demonstration of sorrow marred the peace in which her soul dwelt the
last days of its stay, for the very room seemed hallowed, a place too
sacred for the intrusion of any personal grief.

Turning one day to her husband, who seldom left her side, she said,--

"My sorrow made me selfish; I see it now. Look at the good you have
done, the many you have helped; what have I done, what have I to show
for all these years?"

Just then Darrell passed the window before which she was lying.

"There is your work, Patience," Mr. Britton replied, tenderly; "you have
that to show for those years of loneliness and suffering. Surely, love,
you have done noble work there; work whose results will last for
years--probably for generations--yet to come!"

Her face lighted with a rapturous smile. "I had not thought of that,"
she whispered; "I will not go empty-handed after all. Perhaps He will
say of me, as of one of old, 'She hath done what she could.'"

From that time she sank rapidly, sleeping lightly, waking occasionally
with a child-like smile, then lapsing again into unconsciousness.

One evening as the day was fading she awoke from a long sleep and looked
intently into the faces gathered about her. Her pastor, who had known
her through all the years of her sorrow, was beside her. Bending over
her and looking into the eyes now dimmed by the approaching shadows, he
said,--

"You have not much longer to wait, my dear sister."

With a significant gesture she pointed to the fading light.

"'Until the day break,'" she murmured, with difficulty.

He was quick to catch her meaning and bowed his head in token that he
understood; then, raising his hand above her head, as though in
benediction, in broken tones he slowly pronounced the words,--

"'Thy sun shall no more go down; neither shall thy moon withdraw itself:
for the Lord shall be thine everlasting light, and the days of thy
mourning shall be ended.'"

Her face brightened; a seraphic smile burst forth, irradiating every
feature with a light which never faded, for, with a look of loving
farewell into the faces of husband and son, she sank into a sleep from
which she did not wake, and when, as the day was breaking over the
eastern hill-tops, her soul took flight, the smile still lingered,
deepening into such perfect peace as is seldom seen on mortal faces.

As Darrell, a few moments later, stood at the window, watching the stars
paling one by one in the light of the coming dawn, a bit of verse with
which he had been familiar years before, but which he had not recalled
until then, recurred to him with peculiar force:

  "A soul passed out on its way toward Heaven
  As soon as the word of release was given;
  And the trail of the meteor swept around
  The lovely form of the homeward-bound.
  Glimmering, shimmering, there on high,
  The stars grew dim as one passed them by;
  And the earth was never again so bright,
  For a soul had slipped from its place that night."

After Mrs. Britton's death, deprived of her companionship and of the
numberless little ministrations to her comfort in which they had
delighted, both Mr. Britton and Darrell found life strangely empty. They
also missed the strenuous western life to which they had been
accustomed, with its ceaseless demands upon both muscle and brain. The
life around them seemed narrow and restricted; the very monotony of the
landscape wearied them; they longed for the freedom and activity of the
West, the breadth and height of the mountains.

As both were standing one day beside the resting-place of the wife and
mother, which Mr. Britton had himself chosen for her, the latter said,--

"John, there are no longer any ties to hold us here. You may have to
remain here until affairs are settled, but I have no place, and want
none, in Hosea Jewett's home. I am going back to the West; and I know
that sooner or later you will return also, for your heart is among the
mountains. But before we separate I want one promise from you, my son."

"Name it," said Darrell; "you know, father, I would fulfil any and every
wish of yours within my power."

"It was my wish in the past, when my time should come to die, to be
buried on the mountain-side, near the Hermitage. But life henceforth for
me will be altogether different from what it has been heretofore; and I
want your promise, John, if you outlive me, that when the end comes, no
matter where I may be, you will bring me back to her, that when our
souls are reunited our bodies may rest together here, within sound of
the river's voice and shielded by the overhanging boughs from winter's
storm and summer's heat."

Father and son clasped hands above the newly made grave.

"I promise you, father," Darrell replied; "but you did not need to ask
the pledge."

When John Britton left Ellisburg a few days later a crowd of friends
were gathered at the little depot to extend their sympathy and bid him
farewell. A few were old associates of his own, some were his wife's
friends, and some Darrell's. To those who had known him in the past he
was greatly changed, and none of them quite understood his quaint
philosophizings, his broad views, or his seeming isolation from their
work-a-day, business world in which he had formerly taken so active a
part. They knew naught of his years of solitary life or of how lives
spent in years of contemplation and reflection, of retrospection and
introspection, become gradually lifted out of the ordinary channels of
thought and out of touch with the more practical life of the world. But
they had had abundant evidence of his love and devotion to his wife, and
of his kindness and liberality towards many of their own number, and for
these they loved him.

There was not one, however, who mourned his departure so deeply as
Experience Jewett, though she gave little expression to her sorrow. She
had hoped that after her sister's death his home would still be with
them. This, not from any weak sentimentality or any thought that he
would ever be aught than as a brother to her, but because his very
presence in the home was refreshing, helpful, comforting, and because it
was a joy to be near him, to hear him talk, and to minister to his
comfort. But he was going from them, as she well knew, never to return,
and beneath the brave, smiling face she carried a sore and aching heart.

Thus John Britton bade the East farewell and turned his face towards the
great West, mindful only of the grave under the elms, to which the river
murmured night and day, and with no thought of return until he, too,
should come to share that peaceful resting place.




_Chapter XXXIV_

A WARNING


Spring had come again and Walcott's probationary year with Mr. Underwood
had nearly expired. For a while he had maintained his old suavity of
manner and business had been conducted satisfactorily, but as months
passed and Kate Underwood was unapproachable as ever and the prospect of
reconciliation between them seemed more remote, he grew sullen and
morose, and Mr. Underwood began to detect signs of mismanagement.
Determined to wait until he had abundance of evidence with which to
confront him, however, he said nothing, but continued to watch him with
unceasing vigilance.

Mr. Underwood, though able to attend to business, had never fully
recovered from the illness of the preceding year. His physician advised
him to retire from business, as any excitement or shock would be likely
to cause a second attack far more serious than the first; but to this
Mr. Underwood would not listen, clinging tenaciously to the old routine
to which he had been accustomed. Kate, realizing her father's condition,
guarded him with watchful solicitude from every possible worry and
anxiety, spending much of her time with him, and even familiarizing
herself with many details of his business in order to assist him.

In the months since Darrell's return east Kate had matured in many ways.
Her tall, slender form was beginning to round out in symmetrical
proportions, and her voice, always sweet, had developed wonderfully in
volume and range. She had taken up the study of music anew, both vocal
and instrumental, devoting her leisure hours to arduous practice, her
father having promised her a thorough course of study in Europe, for
which she was preparing herself with great enthusiasm.

Though no words were exchanged between Mr. Underwood and Walcott, the
latter became conscious of the other's growing disfavor, and the
conviction gradually forced itself upon him that all hope of gaining his
partner's daughter in marriage was futile. For Kate Underwood he cared
little, except as a means of securing a hold upon her father's wealth.
As he found himself compelled to abandon this scheme and saw the prize
he had thus hoped to gain slipping farther and farther from his grasp,
his rage made him desperate, and he determined to gain all or lose all
in one mad venture. To make ready for this would require weeks, perhaps
months, but he set about his preparations with method and deliberation.
Either the boldness of his plan or his absorption in the expected
outcome made him negligent of details, however, and slowly, but surely,
Mr. Underwood gathered the proofs of his guilt with which he intended to
confront him when the opportune moment arrived. But even yet he did not
dream the extent of his partner's frauds or the villany of which he was
capable; he therefore took no one into his confidence and sought no
assistance.

Kate was quick to observe the change in Walcott's manner and to note the
malignity lurking in the half-closed eyes whenever they encountered her
own or her father's gaze, and, while saying nothing to excite or worry
the latter, redoubled her vigilance, seldom leaving him alone.

Affairs had reached this state when, with the early spring days, Mr.
Britton returned from the East and stopped for a brief visit at The
Pines. In a few days he divined enough of the situation to lead him to
suspect that danger of some kind threatened his old friend. A hint from
Kate confirmed his suspicion, and he resolved to prolong his stay and
await developments.

One afternoon soon after his arrival Kate, returning from a walk, while
passing up the driveway met a woman coming from The Pines. The latter
was tall, dressed in black, and closely veiled,--a stranger,--yet
something in her appearance seemed familiar. Suddenly Kate recalled the
"Señora" who sent the summons to Walcott on that day set for their
marriage, more than a year before. Though she had caught only a brief
glimpse of the black-robed and veiled figure within the carriage, she
remembered a peculiarly graceful poise of the head as she had leaned
forward for a final word with Walcott, and by that she identified the
woman now approaching her. Each regarded the other closely as they met.
To Kate it seemed as though the woman hesitated for the fraction of a
second, as though about to speak, but she passed on silently. On
reaching a turn in the driveway Kate, looking back, saw the woman
standing near the large gates watching her, but the latter, finding
herself observed, passed through the gates to the street and walked
away.

Perplexed and somewhat annoyed, Kate proceeded on her way to the house.
She believed the woman to be in some way associated with Walcott, and
that her presence there presaged evil of some sort. As she entered the
sitting-room her aunt looked up with a smile from her seat before the
fire.

"You have just had rather a remarkable caller, Katherine."

"That woman in black whom I just met?" Kate asked, betraying no
surprise, for she felt none; she was prepared at that moment for almost
any announcement.

"Who was she, Aunt Marcia? and what did she want with me?"

"She refused to give her name, but said to tell you 'a friend' called.
She seemed disappointed at not seeing you, and as she was leaving she
said, 'Say to her she has a friend where she least thinks it, and if
she, or any one she loves, is in danger, I will come and warn her.' She
was very quiet-appearing, notwithstanding her tragic language. You say
you met her; what do you think of her?"

Kate had been thinking rapidly. "I have seen her once before, auntie. I
am positive she is in some way connected with Mr. Walcott, and equally
positive that he has some evil designs against papa; but why she should
warn me against him, if that is her intention, I cannot imagine."

"Is there no way of warning your father, Katherine?" Mrs. Dean inquired,
anxiously.

"Mr. Britton and I have talked it over, auntie. We think papa suspects
him and is watching him, but so long as he doesn't take either of us
into his confidence we don't want to excite or worry him by suggesting
any danger. This woman may or may not be friendly, as she claims, but in
any event, if she comes again, I must see her. Whatever danger there may
be I want to know it; then I'm not afraid but that I can defend papa or
myself in case of trouble."

For several days Kate scanned her horizon closely for portents of the
coming storm. She saw nothing of the mysterious woman who had styled
herself a friend, but on more than one occasion she had a fleeting
glimpse of the man who on that memorable day brought the message from
her to Walcott, and Kate felt that a dénouement of some kind was near.

Walcott's preparations were nearly perfected; another week would
complete them. By that time the funds of the firm as well as large
deposits held in trust, would be where he could lay his fingers on them
at a moment's notice. At a given signal two trusted agents would be at
the side entrance with fleet horses on which they would travel to a
neighboring village, and there, where their appearance would excite no
suspicion, they were to board the late express, which would carry them
to a point whence they could easily reach a place of safety.

But his well-laid plans were suddenly checked by a request one afternoon
from his senior partner to meet him in his private office that evening
at eight o'clock. The tone in which this request was preferred aroused
Walcott's suspicions that an investigation might be pending, and,
enraged at being thus checkmated, he determined to strike at once.

At dinner Mr. Underwood mentioned an engagement which would, he said,
detain him for an hour or so that evening, but having never since his
illness gone to the offices in the evening, no one supposed it more than
an ordinary business appointment with some friend.

He had left the house only a few moments when a caller was announced for
Miss Underwood.

Kate's heart gave a sudden bound as, on entering the reception-hall, she
saw again the woman whose coming was to be a warning of danger. She was,
as usual, dressed in black and heavily veiled. Kate was conscious of no
fear; rather a joy that the suspense was over, that there was at last
something definite and tangible to face.

"Señorita, may I see you in private?" The voice was sweet, but somewhat
muffled by the veil, while the words had just enough of the Spanish
accent to render them liquid and musical.

Kate bowed in assent, and silently led the way to a small reception-room
of her own. She motioned her caller to a seat, but the latter remained
standing and turned swiftly, facing Kate, still veiled.

"Señorita, you do not know me?" The words had the rising inflection of a
question.

"No," Kate replied, slowly; "I do not know you; but I know that this is
not your first call at The Pines."

"I called some ten days since to see you."

"You called," Kate spoke deliberately, "more than a year since to see
Mr. Walcott."

The woman started and drew back slightly. "How could you know?" she
exclaimed; "surely he did not tell you!"

"I saw you."

There was a moment's silence; when next she spoke her voice was lower
and more musical.

"Señorita, I come as your friend; do you believe me?"

"I want to believe you," Kate answered, frankly, "but I can tell better
whether I do or not when I know more of you and of your errands here."

For answer the woman, with a sudden swift movement, threw back her veil,
revealing a face of unusual beauty,--oval in contour, of a rich olive
tint, with waving masses of jet-black hair, framing a low, broad
forehead. But her eyes were what drew Kate's attention: large, lustrous,
but dark and unfathomable as night, yet with a look in them of dumb,
agonizing appeal. The two women formed a striking contrast as they
stood face to face; they seemed to impersonate Hope and Despair.

"Señorita," she said, in a low, passionless voice, "I am Señor Walcott's
wife."

Kate's very soul seemed to recoil at the words, but she did not start or
shrink.

"I have the certificate of our marriage here," she continued, producing
a paper, "signed by the holy father who united us."

Kate waved it back. "I do not wish to see it, nor do I doubt your word,"
she replied, gently; "I understand now why you first came to this house.
What brings you here to-night?"

"I come to warn you that your father is in danger."

"My father!" Kate exclaimed, quickly, her whole manner changed. "Where?
How?"

"Señor Walcott has an engagement with him at eight o'clock at their
offices, and he means to do him harm, I know not just what; but he is
angry with him, I know not why, and he is a dangerous man when he is
angry."

Kate touched a bell to summon a servant. "I will go to him at once;
but," she added, looking keenly into the woman's face, "how do you know
of this? How did you learn it? Did he tell you?"

The other shook her head with a significant gesture. "He tells me
nothing; he tells no one but Tony, and Tony tells me nothing; but I saw
them talking together to-night, and he was very angry. I overheard some
words. I heard him say he would see your father to-night and make him
sorry he had not done as he agreed, and he showed Tony a little stiletto
which he carries with him, and then he laughed."

Kate shuddered slightly. "Who is Tony?" she asked.

The woman smiled with another gesture. "Tony is--Tony; that is all I
know. He and my husband know each other."

A servant appeared; Kate ordered her own carriage brought to the door at
once. Then, turning on a sudden impulse to the stranger, she said,--

"Will you come with me? Or are you afraid of him--afraid to have him
know you warned me?"

The woman laughed bitterly. "I feared him once," she said; "but I fear
him no longer; he fears me now. Yes, I will go with you."

"Then wait here; I will be ready in a moment."

At twenty minutes of eight Kate and the stranger passed down the hall
together--the woman veiled, Kate attired in a trim walking suit. The
latter stopped to look in at the sitting-room door.

"Aunt Marcia, Mr. Britton said he would be out but a few minutes. When
he comes in please tell him I want to see him at papa's office; my
carriage will be waiting for him here."

Her aunt looked her surprise, but she knew Kate to be enough like her
father that it was useless to ask an explanation where she herself made
none.

Once seated in the carriage and driving rapidly down the street Kate
laid her hand on the arm of her strange companion.

"Señora," she said, "you say you are my friend; were you my friend the
first time you came to the house? If not then, why are you now?"

"No, I was not your friend;" for the first time there was a ring of
passion in her voice; "I hated you, for I thought he loved you--that you
had stolen his heart and made him forget me. I travelled many miles. I
vowed to kill you both before you should marry him. Then I found he
could not marry you while I was his wife; he had told me our marriage
was void here because performed in another country. I found he had told
me wrong, and I told him unless he came with me I would go to the church
and tell them there I was his wife."

"And he went away with you?" Kate questioned.

"Yes, and he gave me money, and then he told me----" The woman
hesitated.

"Go on," said Kate.

"He told me that he did not love you; that he only wanted to marry you
that he might get money from your father, and then he would leave you.
So when I found he wanted to make you suffer as he had me I began to
pity you. I came back to Ophir to see what you were like. He does not
know that I am here. I found he was angry because you would not marry
him. Then I was glad. I saw you many times that you did not know. Your
face was kind and good, as though you would pity me if you knew all, and
I loved you. I heard something about a lover you had a few years ago who
died, and I knew your heart must have been sad for him, and I vowed he
should never harm you or any one you loved."

They had reached the offices; the carriage stopped, but not before
Kate's hand had sought and found the stranger's in silent token that she
understood.




_Chapter XXXV_

A FIEND AT BAY


Kate, on leaving her carriage, directed the driver to go back to The
Pines to await Mr. Britton's return and bring him immediately to the
office. She then unlocked the door to the room which had been Darrell's
office and which opened directly upon the street, and she and her
companion entered and seated themselves in the darkness. The room next
adjoining was Walcott's private office, and beyond that was Mr.
Underwood's private office, the two latter rooms being separated by a
small entrance. They had waited but a few moments when Mr. Underwood's
carriage stopped before this entrance, and an instant later Kate heard
her father's voice directing the coachman to call for him in about an
hour. As the key turned in the lock she heard Walcott's voice also. The
two men entered and went at once into Mr. Underwood's private office.

Mr. Underwood immediately proceeded to business in his usual abrupt
fashion:

"Mr. Walcott, there is no use dallying or beating about the bush; I want
this partnership terminated at once. There's no use in an honest man and
a thief trying to do business together, and this interview to-night is
to find the shortest way of dissolving the partnership."

"I think that can be very easily and quickly done, Mr. Underwood,"
Walcott replied.

Kate, who had stationed herself in the entrance where she had a view of
both men, saw the cruel leer that accompanied Walcott's words and
understood their significance as her father did not. Her hand sought the
bosom of her dress for an instant, then dropped quietly at her side, but
swift as the movement was, her companion had seen in the dim light the
gleam of the weapon now partially concealed by the folds of her skirt.
With noiseless, cat-like step she approached Kate and touched her arm.

"You will not shoot? You will not kill him?" she breathed rather than
whispered.

Kate's only reply was to lay her finger on her lips, never removing her
eyes from Walcott's face, but even then, in her absorption, she noted a
peculiar quality in those scarcely audible tones, something that was
neither fear nor love; there seemed somehow an element of savagery in
them.

Meanwhile, Mr. Underwood was going rapidly through the evidence which he
had accumulated, showing mismanagement and fraud in the conduct of the
business of the firm and misappropriation of some of the funds held in
trust. Of the wholesale robbery, the plans for which Walcott had so
nearly perfected, he knew absolutely nothing. As Walcott listened, the
sneer on his face deepened.

"You seem to have gone to a vast amount of labor for nothing," he
remarked, as Mr. Underwood concluded. "I could have given you that much
information off-hand. You have not lived up to your part of the
contract, and I see no reason why I should be expected to fulfil mine.
You promised me your daughter in marriage, and then simply because she
saw fit----"

"We will leave my daughter's name out of this controversy, sir," Mr.
Underwood interposed, sternly. "Were it not for the fact that your name
has been publicly associated with hers, I would prosecute you for the
scoundrel and black-leg that you are."

"But for the sake of your daughter's name you intend to deal leniently
with me," Walcott sneered. "Supposing we come at once to the point of
dissolving our partnership; it cannot be done any too quickly for me.
May I inquire on what terms you propose to settle?"

Mr. Underwood went briefly over the terms which he had outlined on a
sheet of paper before him on his desk; Walcott, seated eight or ten feet
distant, listened, his dark face paling with anger.

"Pardon me," he said, at the conclusion; "I think I missed a few
details; suppose we go over that again together."

He rose and advanced towards Mr. Underwood's chair as though to look
over his shoulder, at the same time thrusting his right hand within the
inner pocket of his coat. Before he had covered half the space, however,
a voice rang through the room with startling clearness,--

"Not a step farther, or you are a dead man!"

Both men turned, to see Kate Underwood standing in the doorway, holding
a revolver levelled at Walcott with an aim which the latter's practised
eye told him to be both sure and deadly. Astonishment and rage passed in
quick succession over his countenance; he looked for an instant as
though contemplating some desperate move.

"Stir one hair's breadth, and you are a dead man!" she repeated. He
remained motionless, and the hand just withdrawn from his coat disclosed
to view a tiny, glittering stiletto.

Kate's only anxious thought was for her father, who, too bewildered to
move or speak, was for the time as motionless as Walcott himself; she
feared lest the suddenness of the shock might prove too much for him. To
her relief, she heard Mr. Britton entering. He took in the situation at
a glance and sprang at once to her side.

"I am all right," she cried, brightly; "look after papa, first; then we
will attend to this creature."

With the revolver still levelled at Walcott, Kate slowly advanced
towards him.

"Give me that weapon!" she demanded.

He gave a sinister smile, but before she had taken another step, her
companion sprang into the room with a piercing cry and intercepted her:

"No, no, Señorita!" she exclaimed; "do not touch it! Mother of God! it
is poisoned; a single scratch means death!"

At sight of her, Walcott's face grew livid. "You fiend! You she-devil!"
he hissed; "this is your doing, is it?" and he burst into a torrent of
curses and imprecations.

"Be silent!" Mr. Britton ordered, sternly, and Kate accompanied the
command with an ominous click of her revolver. The wretch cowered into
silence, but his eyes glowed with fairly demoniac fury.

"Now," said Mr. Underwood, his faculties fully restored, "I want to know
the meaning of this; let us sift this whole thing to the bottom."

"Search your man, first, David," said Mr. Britton, and suiting the
action to the word he approached Walcott, but was warded off by the
woman standing near.

"No, no, Señor, a little turn of the wrist, so slight you would not see,
would cause death. I will take it from him; the viper dare not sting
me!"

As she extended her hand she tauntingly held her wrist close to the tiny
point, scarcely larger than a good-sized pin.

"Life and freedom are precious, Señor!" she said, in low, mocking tones,
as she took the weapon from him and handed it to Mr. Britton, who laid
it carefully on a table near by, and then proceeded to search Walcott's
clothing, saying.--

"I want you to see what you have been dealing with, David."

To the stiletto already placed upon the table were added another of
larger size, two loaded revolvers, several packages of valuable
securities taken from the vaults of the firm that afternoon, and a
nearly complete set of duplicate keys to the safes and deposit boxes of
the offices.

Mr. Britton then relieved Kate, congratulating her warmly, and stationed
himself near Walcott, who glowered like a wild beast that, temporarily
restrained by the keeper's lash, only awaits opportunity for a more
furious onslaught later.

Kate stepped at once to her father's side; he turned upon her a look of
affectionate pride, but before he could speak, she had drawn forward her
companion, saying,--

"Here is one, papa, to whom we owe much. She has saved your life
to-night, for I would not have known you were in danger if she had not
warned me, and she saved me from worse than death in preventing the
carrying out of the farce of an illegal marriage with that villain, by
giving me a glimpse of his real character before it was too late."

The change that passed over Mr. Underwood's countenance during Kate's
words was fearful to see. From the kindliness and courtesy with which he
had greeted the stranger his face seemed changed to granite, so hard
and relentless it became.

"An illegal marriage? What do you mean?" he demanded, and there was
something in his voice that no one present had ever heard there before.

"Illegal, papa, because this woman is his lawful wife." And Kate gave a
brief explanation of the situation.

"Is that so?" he appealed to the woman, his tones strangely quiet.

"Yes, Señor; I have the papers to prove it."

"Do you admit it?" he demanded of Walcott, with a glance which made the
latter quail, while his hand sought one of the loaded revolvers lying on
the table.

"We were married years ago, but I did not know the woman was living; I
swear I did not. I supposed she was dead until the day she came to me."

"How about the past year? You have known all this time that she was
living, yet you have dared to press your suit for my daughter, you dog!
Not another word!" he exclaimed, as Walcott strove to form some excuse.

He raised his hand and the revolver gleamed in the light. Mr. Britton
grasped him by the arm.

"David, old friend, calm yourself!" he exclaimed. "Don't be rash or
foolish; let the law take its course."

"The law!" interposed Mr. Underwood, fiercely; "do you think I'd take a
case of this kind into the courts? Charges such as these against a man
whose name has been publicly associated with my daughter's as her
betrothed husband, and the principal witness against that man his own
wife! Do you suppose for a moment I'll have my daughter's name dragged
through such mire? No, by God! I'll blow the dog's brains out with my
own hand first!"

A fierce struggle ensued for a moment between the two men, which ended
in John Britton's disarming his friend, Kate meanwhile keeping Walcott
at bay as he sought in the momentary confusion to effect an escape.

Once calmed, Mr. Underwood, notwithstanding Mr. Britton's protestations,
sullenly refused to prosecute Walcott. Telephoning for an attorney who
was an old-time and trusted friend, he had an agreement drawn and
signed, whereby, upon the repayment of the funds belonging to him, after
deducting an amount therefrom sufficient to replace what he had
misappropriated, he was to leave the country altogether.

"You have escaped this time," were Mr. Underwood's parting words; "but
remember, if you ever again seek to injure me or mine, no power on earth
can save you, and I'll not go into the courts either."

As Kate and her strange companion parted, the former inquired, "Why did
you ask me not to shoot him? You surely cannot love him!"

"Love him?" she exclaimed, softly. "No, but I feared you would kill him.
His time has not come yet, Señorita, but when it does, this must be the
hand!" She lifted her own right hand with a significant movement as she
said this, and glided out into the darkness and was gone ere Kate could
recall her.

When Kate and her father, with Mr. Britton's assistance, before
returning home for the night, removed the articles taken from Walcott's
pockets, the tiny, poisoned stiletto was nowhere to be found.




_Chapter XXXVI_

SENORA MARTINEZ


Although Mr. Underwood escaped the stroke which it was feared might
follow the excitement of his final interview with Walcott, it was soon
apparent that his nervous system had suffered from the shock. His
physician became insistent in his demands that he not only retire from
business, but have an entire change of scene, to insure absolute
relaxation and rest. This advice was earnestly seconded by Mr. Britton,
not alone for the sake of his friend's health, but more especially
because he believed it unsafe for Mr. Underwood or Kate to remain in
that part of the country so long as Walcott had his liberty. Their
combined counsel and entreaties at length prevailed. A responsible man
was found to take charge, under Mr. Britton's supervision, of Mr.
Underwood's business interests. The Pines was closed, two or three
faithful servants being retained to guard and care for the property, and
early in April Mr. Underwood, accompanied by his sister and daughter,
left Ophir ostensibly for the South. They remained south, however, only
until he had recuperated sufficiently for a longer journey, and then
sailed for Europe, but of this fact no one in Ophir had knowledge save
Mr. Britton.

During the last days of Kate's stay in Ophir she watched in vain for
another glimpse of her strange friend. On the morning of her departure,
as the train was leaving the depot, she suddenly saw the olive-skinned
messenger of former occasions running alongside the Pullman in which
she was seated. Catching her eye, he motioned for her to raise the
window; she did so, whereupon he tossed a little package into her lap,
pointing at the same time farther down the platform, and lifting his
ragged sombrero, vanished. An instant later the Señora came into view,
standing at the extreme end of the platform, a lace mantilla thrown
about her head and shoulders, the ends of which she now waved in token
of farewell. Kate held up the little package with a smile; she responded
with a deprecatory gesture indicative of its insignificance, then with
another wave of the lace scarf and a flutter of Kate's handkerchief,
they passed out of each other's sight.

Kate hastily undid the package; a little box of ebony inlaid with pearl
slipped from the wrappings, which, upon touching a secret spring,
opened, disclosing a small cross of Etruscan gold of the most exquisite
workmanship. In her first letter to Mr. Britton Kate related the
incident, and begged him to look out for the woman and render her any
assistance possible.

To this Mr. Britton needed no urging. Since his first sight of her that
night in Mr. Underwood's office he had been looking for her, for a
twofold purpose. For a number of weeks he failed to get even a glimpse
of her, nor could he obtain any clew to her whereabouts.

One night, well into the summer, he came upon her, unexpectedly,
standing in front of a cheap restaurant, looking at the edibles
displayed in the window. She was not veiled, her face was pale and
haggard, and there was no mistaking the expression in her eyes as she
finally turned away.

"My friend," said Mr. Britton, laying his hand gently on her shoulder,
"are you hungry?"

She shrank from him with a start till a glance in his face reassured
her, and she answered, with an expressive gesture,--

"Yes, Señor; I have had nothing to eat to-day, and but little
yesterday."

"This is no fit place; come with me," Mr. Britton replied, leading the
way two or three blocks down the street, to a first-class restaurant. He
conducted her through the ladies' entrance into a private box, where he
ordered a substantial dinner for two.

"Señor," she protested, as the waiter left the box, "I have no money, no
way to repay you for this, you understand?"

"I understand," he answered, quickly; "I want no return for this. Miss
Underwood wished me to find you, and help you, if I could."

"Yes, I know; you are the Señorita's friend."

"And your friend also, if I can help you."

"You saved his life that night, Señor; I do not forget," the woman said,
with peculiar emphasis.

"Yes, I undoubtedly saved the scoundrel from a summary vengeance;
possibly I might not have done it, had I known what the alternative
would be. Where is that man now?" he asked, with sudden directness.

"I do not know, Señor; he tells me nothing, but I have heard he went
south some time ago."

The entrance of the waiter with their orders put a temporary stop to
conversation. The woman ate silently, regarding Mr. Britton from time to
time with an expression of childlike wonder. When her hunger was
appeased, and she seemed inclined to talk, he said,--

"Tell me something of yourself. When and where did you marry that man?"

"We were married in Mexico, seven years ago."

"Your home was in Mexico?"

"No, Señor, my father owned a big cattle ranch in Texas. Señor Walcott,
as you call him here, worked for him. He wanted to marry me, but my
father opposed the marriage. We lived close to the line, so we went
across one day and were married. My father was very angry, but I was his
only child, and by and by he forgave and took us back."

"Do I understand you that Walcott is not this man's real name?" Mr.
Britton interposed.

"His name is José Martinez, Señor."

"But is he not a half-breed? I have understood his father was an
Englishman."

"His father was an Englishman, but no one ever knew who he was, you
understand, Señor? Afterwards his mother married Pablo Martinez, and her
child took his name. That was why my father opposed our marriage."

"I understand," said Mr. Britton; "but he claims heavy cattle interests
in the South; how did he come by them?"

"My father's, all of them;" she replied. "He and my father quarrelled
soon after we went there to live. Then we came away north; we lived for
a while in this State,"--she paused and hesitated as though fearing she
had said too much, but Mr. Britton's face betrayed nothing, and she
continued: "Then, in a year or so, we went south and he and my father
quarrelled again. My father was found dead on the plains, trampled by
the cattle, but no one knew how it came about. Then José took everything
and told me I had nothing. He went north again three years ago. A year
later he came back and told me I was not his wife, that our marriage was
void because it was not performed in this country. I became very ill. He
took me away among strangers and left me there, to die, as he thought.
But he was mistaken. I had something to live for,--to follow him, as I
have followed him and will follow him to the end."

The woman rose from the table; Mr. Britton rose also, and stood for a
moment, facing her.

"He is a dangerous man," he said; "how is it that you do not fear him?"

She laughed softly. "He fears me, Señor; why should I fear him?"

"I understand," Mr. Britton said; "he fears you because you know him to
be a criminal; because his freedom--perhaps his very life--is in your
hands. Why are you not in danger on that account? What is to hinder his
taking a life so inimical to his own?"

A cunning, treacherous smile crept over her face and a baleful light
gleamed in her eyes, as she replied, "If I die at his hand my secret
does not die with me. I have fixed that. If I die to-day, the world
knows my secret to-morrow. He knows it, Señor, and I am safe."

"Did it never occur to you," said Mr. Britton, slowly, "that for the
safety of others your secret should be made known now?"

The woman's whole appearance changed; she regarded Mr. Britton with a
look of mingled anger and terror, as he continued:

"That man's life and freedom are a constant menace to other lives. Are
you willing to take the responsibility of the results which may follow
your withholding that secret, keeping it locked within your own breast?"

The woman looked quickly for a chance of escape, but Mr. Britton barred
the only means of exit. Her expression was that of a creature brought to
bay.

"I understand the meaning of your kindness to-night," she cried,
fiercely. "You are one of the 'fly' men, and you thought to buy my
secret from me. Let me tell you, you will never buy it, nor can you
force it from me! So long as he does me no harm I will never make it
known, and if I die a natural death, it dies with me!"

"You are mistaken," he replied, calmly; "I am no detective, no official
of any sort. My bringing you here to-night was of itself wholly
disinterested, done for the sake of a friend who wished me to help you.
I have wished to meet you and talk with you, as I was interested to
learn your story, out of sympathy for you and a desire to help you, and
also to shed new light on your husband's character, of which I have made
quite a study; but I am not seeking to force you into making any
disclosures against your will."

Her anger had subsided as quickly as it had been aroused.

"Pardon me, Señor," she said; "I was wrong. Accept my gratitude for your
kindness; I will not forget."

"Don't mention it. If you need help at any time, let me know; I do not
forget that you saved my friend's life. But one word in parting: don't
think your secret will not become known. Those things always work
themselves out, and justice will overtake that man yet. When it does,
your own life may not be as safe as you now think it is. If you need a
friend then, come to me."

The woman regarded him silently for a moment. "Thank you, Señor," she
said, gently; "I understand. Justice will yet overtake him, as you say;
and when it does," she added, significantly, "I will need no help."




_Chapter XXXVII_

THE IDENTIFICATION


The following September found Darrell again in Ophir and re-established
in his old-time quarters. To his old office he had added the room
formerly occupied by Walcott, his increasing business demanding more
office room and the presence of an assistant.

Before leaving the East he revisited the members of his old syndicate
and informed them that he intended henceforth making his head-quarters
in the West, and if they wished to employ him as their expert, he would
execute commissions from that point. To this they readily agreed, and
also gave him letters of introduction to a number of capitalists
interested in western mining properties, who were only too glad to
secure the services of a reliable expert who would be on the ground and
familiar with existing conditions. As a result, Darrell had scarcely
reopened business at his former quarters before he found himself with
numerous eastern commissions to be executed, in addition to his old work
as assayer.

He was prepared for the changes which had taken place during the year of
his absence, his father having kept him thoroughly informed of all that
had occurred.

Darrell was delighted at the story of Kate Underwood's coolness and
bravery in saving her father's life, and sent her a note of hearty
congratulation, which she kept among her cherished treasures. Since that
time, occasional letters were exchanged between them; hers, bright,
entertaining sketches of their travels here and there, with comments
characteristic of herself regarding places and people; his, permeated
with the fresh, exhilarating atmosphere of the mountains, and pervaded
by a vigor and virility which roused Kate's admiration, yet led her to
wonder if this could be the same lover who had won her childish heart in
those idyllic days. Each realized the fact that notwithstanding their
love, notwithstanding their stanch comradeship, at present they were
little more than strangers. Darrell's love for Kate was a reality, but
her personality, so far as he could recall it, was little more than a
dream; each letter revealed some unexpected phase of her character; he
found their correspondence an unfailing source of pleasure, and was
content to await the time of their meeting, confident that he would find
the real woman all and more than the ideal which he fondly cherished as
his Dream-Love. And to Kate, each letter of Darrell's brought more and
more forcibly the conviction that the lover whom she remembered was as a
dream compared with the reality she was to meet some day.

About six months had elapsed when Darrell received, early one morning,
the following telegram from his father, summoning him to Galena:

     "Come over on first train. Important."

By the first train he would reach Galena a little before noon; he had
not breakfasted, and had but twenty minutes in which to make it. Calling
a carriage, he went directly to his office, where he left a brief
explanatory note for the clerk, written on the way, then drove with all
possible speed to the depot, arriving on time but without a minute to
spare. He breakfasted on the train, and while running over the morning
paper, his attention was caught by a despatch from Galena to the effect
that one of the leading banks in that city had been entered and the safe
opened and robbed on the preceding night. The robbers, of whom there
were three, had been discovered by the police. A fight had ensued in
which one officer and one of the robbers were killed, the second robber
wounded, while the third had made his escape with most of the plunder.
It was further stated that they were known to belong to the notorious
band of outlaws so long the terror of that region, and it was believed
the wounded man was none other than the leader himself, the murderer of
Harry Whitcomb and the young express clerk, for whom there was a
standing reward of twenty-five thousand dollars, dead or alive. The man
was to have a preliminary examination that afternoon, and the greatest
excitement prevailed in Galena, as it was rumored that others of the
band would probably be present, scattered throughout the crowd, for the
purpose of rescuing their leader.

In a flash Darrell understood his father's summons. He let the paper
fall and, unmindful of his breakfast, gazed abstractedly out of the
window. His thoughts had reverted to that scene in the sleeper on his
first trip west. He seemed to see it again in all its sickening detail,
the face of the assassin standing out before him with such startling
distinctness and realism that he involuntarily placed his hand over his
eyes to shut out the hateful sight.

At Galena he was met by his father, who took a closed carriage to his
hotel, conducting Darrell immediately to his own room, where he ordered
lunch served for both.

"Do you know why I have sent for you?" Mr. Britton inquired, as soon as
they were left alone together.

"I had no idea when I started," Darrell replied, "but on reading the
morning paper, on my way over, I concluded you wanted me at that trial
this afternoon."

"You are correct. Are you prepared to identify that face? Is your
recollection of it as distinct as ever?"

"Yes; after reading of that bank robbery this morning, the whole affair
in the car that night came back to me so vividly I could see the man's
face as clearly as any face on the train with me."

"Good!" Mr. Britton ejaculated.

"Do you think there is any likelihood of an attempt to rescue him, as
stated by the paper?" Darrell inquired, rather incredulously.

"If the leader of the band finds himself in need of help it will be
forthcoming," Mr. Britton answered, with peculiar emphasis. "The
citizens are expecting trouble and have sworn in about a dozen extra
deputy sheriffs, myself among the number."

When lunch was over Mr. Britton ordered a carriage at once, and they
proceeded to the court-room.

"What is your opinion of this man?" Darrell asked his father, while on
the way. "Would you have selected him as the murderer, from your study
of him?"

"I reserve my opinions until later," Mr. Britton replied. "I want you to
act from memory alone, unbiased by any outside influence."

Arriving at the court-room, they found it already well filled. Darrell
was about to enter, but his father took him into a small anteroom, while
he himself went to look for seats. He had a little difficulty in finding
the seats he wanted, which delayed them so that proceedings had begun as
he and Darrell entered from a side door and took their places in rather
an obscure part of the room.

"You will have a good view here," Mr. Britton said to Darrell, as they
seated themselves, "and there is little likelihood of your being
recognized from this point."

"There is little probability of the man's recognizing me, even if he is
here," Darrell replied, "for he did not give me a second thought that
night, and if he had, I am so changed he would not know me."

"We cannot be too cautious," his father answered.

In a few moments the prisoner was brought in, and there was a general
craning of necks to see him, a number of men in Darrell's vicinity
standing and thus obstructing his view.

"Wait," said his father, as he was about to rise with the others; "don't
make yourself conspicuous; when the man is called for examination you
will have an excellent view from here."

Curiosity gradually subsided, and the men sank back into their seats as
proceedings went on. Then the prisoner was called and stood up for
examination. Darrell drew a quick breath and leaned eagerly forward. The
man was of medium height and size, but his movements seemed heavy and
clumsy, whereas Darrell had been impressed by a litheness and agility in
the movements of the other.

He stood facing his interlocutor, affording Darrell a three-quarter view
of his face, but soon he turned in Darrell's direction, scanning the
crowd slowly, as though in search of some one.

Darrell saw a squarely built, colorless face, surmounted by a shock of
coarse, straight black hair, with heavy, repulsive features, and small,
bullet-shaped, leaden eyes of rather light blue. The face was so utterly
unlike what he had expected to see that he sank back into his seat with
a smothered exclamation of disgust. His father, watching closely,
smiled, seeming rather pleased than otherwise, but Darrell was half
indignant.

"The idea of a lout like that being taken for the leader!" he exclaimed.
"He is nothing but a tool, and a pretty clumsy one at that."

Notwithstanding his vexation, Darrell continued to watch the
proceedings, and in a few moments began to grow interested, not so much
in the examination as in the conduct of the prisoner. The latter
evidently had found the face for which he was looking, for his eyes
seemed glued to a certain spot. Occasionally he would shift them for a
moment, but invariably, with each new interrogatory, they would turn to
that particular spot, as the needle to the pole, not through any
volition of his own, but drawn by some influence against which he was
temporarily powerless.

"That man is under a spell; he is being worked by some one in the
crowd," Darrell exclaimed to his father, in a low tone.

"Yes, and by some one not very far from us; I have spotted him, see if
you cannot."

Following the direction of the man's glance, Darrell began to scan the
faces of the crowd. Suddenly his pulses gave a bound. Seated at a little
distance and partially facing them was a man of the same size and height
as the prisoner, but whose every move and poise suggested alertness. He
was leaning his arms on the back of the seat before him; his head was
lowered so that his chin rested lightly on one hand, while the other
hand played nervously with the seat on which he leaned. His whole
attitude was that of a wild beast crouched, ready to spring upon his
prey. He had an oval face, with deep olive skin, wavy black hair, cut
close except where it curled low over his forehead, and through the
half-closed eyes, fixed upon the prisoner's face, Darrell caught a
glint like that of burnished steel. For an instant Darrell gazed like
one fascinated; he had not expected such an exact reproduction of the
face as he had seen it on that night. His father touched him lightly; he
nodded significantly in reply.

"There is your man!" he exclaimed.

"You are sure? You could swear to it?" queried his father.

"Swear to it? Yes. I would have known him anywhere, but sitting there,
watching that man, his face is precisely as I saw it that night. Wait a
moment, look!"

The man in his agitation at some word of the prisoner's, raised one hand
and brushed his forehead with a nervous gesture, which lifted his hair
slightly, disclosing one end of a scar.

"Did you see that scar?" Darrell questioned, eagerly. "You will find it
almost crescent shaped, rather jagged, and nearly three inches in
length."

"That is all I wanted," his father replied. "I have the warrant for his
arrest with me, and the examination is so nearly over I shall serve it
at once."

"Can I help you?" Darrell asked, as his father moved away.

"No; stay where you are; don't let him see you until after he is under
arrest."

The examination of the prisoner had just ended when Mr. Britton,
accompanied by two deputies, re-entered the court-room. The man still
maintained his crouching attitude, intently watching proceedings. Mr.
Britton approached from the rear. Seizing the man suddenly by the arms,
he pinioned him so that for an instant he was unable to move, and one of
the deputies, leaning over, snapped the handcuffs on him before he
fairly realized what had happened. Then, with a swift movement, Mr.
Britton raised him to his feet and lifted him quickly out into the
aisle, while his voice rang authoritatively through the court-room,--

"José Martinez, alias Walcott, I arrest you in the name of the State!"

The man shouted something in Spanish, evidently a signal, for it was
repeated in different parts of the room. Instantly all was confusion. A
shot fired from the rear wounded one of the deputies; a man seated near
Darrell drew a revolver, but before he could level it Darrell knocked it
from his hand and felled him to the floor. The officers rushed to the
spot, and as the outbreak subsided Mr. Britton brought forward his
prisoner.

A murmur of consternation rose throughout the room, for Walcott had been
known years before among the business men of Galena, and there were not
a few citizens present who had known him as Mr. Underwood's partner.
Walcott, taking advantage of the situation, began to protest his
innocence. Mr. Britton, unmoved, at once beckoned Darrell to his side.
Upon seeing him Walcott's face took on a ghastly hue and he seemed for a
moment on the verge of collapse, but he quickly pulled himself together,
regarding Darrell meanwhile with a venomous malignity seldom seen on a
human face. Not the least surprised man in the crowd was Darrell
himself.

"Do you mean to say," he asked his father, "that this is the Walcott of
whose villany you have been writing me, and that he and the murderer of
Harry Whitcomb are one and the same?"

"So it seems," Mr. Britton replied; "but that is no more than I have
suspected all along."

"Now I understand your fear of my being recognized; it seemed
inexplicable to me," said Darrell.

"If he had seen you," his father replied, "he would have suspected your
errand here at once."

Incredulity was apparent on many faces as Walcott's examination was
begun. He was morose and silent, and nothing could be elicited from him.
When Darrell was called upon, however, and gave his evidence,
incredulity gave place to conviction. As he completed his testimony with
a description of the scar, which, upon examination, was found correct,
the crowd became angry and threats of lynching and personal violence
were heard on various sides. The judge therefore ordered that the
prisoners be removed from the court-room to the jail before any in the
audience had left their places.

In charge of the regular sheriff and four or five deputies the prisoners
were led from the court-room. They had but just reached the street,
however, when those inside heard shots fired in quick succession,
followed by angry cries and shouts for help. The crowd surged to the
doors, to see the officers surrounded by a band of the outlaws who had
been lying in wait for their appearance, having been summoned by the
signal given on the arrest of the leader. With the help of the citizens
the fight was soon terminated, but when the mêlée was over it was
discovered that the sheriff had been killed, a number of citizens and
outlaws wounded, and Martinez, alias Walcott, had escaped.




_Chapter XXXVIII_

WITHIN THE "POCKET"


The remainder of that day and the following night were spent in
fruitless efforts to determine the whereabouts of the fugitive.
Telegrams were sent along the various railway lines into every part of
the State; messengers were despatched to neighboring towns and camps,
but all in vain. For the first thirty-six hours it seemed as though the
earth must have opened and swallowed him up; there was not even a clue
as to the direction in which he had gone.

The second morning after his disappearance reports began to come in from
a dozen different quarters of as many different men, all answering the
description given of the fugitive, who had been identified as the
criminal. Four or five posses, averaging a dozen men each, all armed,
set forth in various directions to follow the clews which seemed most
worthy of credence. For the next few days reports were constantly
received from one posse or another, to the effect that they were on the
right trail, the fugitive had been seen only the preceding night at a
miners' cabin where he had forced two men at the point of a revolver to
surrender their supper of pork and beans; or some lonely ranchman and
his wife had entertained him at dinner the day before. He was always
reported as only about ten hours ahead, footsore and weary, but at the
end of ten days they returned, disorganized, dilapidated, and disgusted,
without even having had a sight of their man.

Other bands were sent out with instructions to separate into squads of
three or four and search the ground thoroughly. Some of them were more
successful, in that they did, occasionally, get sight of the fugitive,
but always under circumstances disadvantageous to themselves. Three of
them stood one day talking with a rancher, who only two hours before had
furnished the man, under protest, with a hearty dinner and a fine rifle.
The rancher pointed out the direction in which he had gone, over a rocky
road leading down a steep, rough ravine; as he did so, his guest
appeared on the other side of the ravine, within good rifle range. A
mutual recognition followed; the men started to raise their rifles, but
the other was too quick for them. Covering them with the rifle which he
carried, he walked backward a distance of about forty yards and then,
with a mocking salute, disappeared. Bloodhounds were next employed, but
the man swam and waded streams and doubled back on his own trail till
men and dogs were alike baffled. This continued for about two months;
then all reports regarding the man ceased; nothing was heard of him, it
was surmised that he had reached the "Pocket," and all efforts at
further search were for the time abandoned.

Of all those concerned in the efforts for his capture there was not one
more thoroughly disgusted with the outcome than Mr. Britton. For months
he had had this man under surveillance, convinced that he was a criminal
and planning to bring about his capture. Through his own efforts he had
been identified, and by his coolness and presence of mind he had
accomplished his arrest when nine out of ten others would have failed,
and all seemed now to have been effort thrown away. He regretted the
man's escape the more especially as he felt that his own life, as well
as that of his son, was endangered so long as he was at liberty.

About a month after the search was abandoned Mr. Britton was one day
surprised by a call from the wife of Martinez. He had not seen her since
his one interview with her months before.

He was sitting in Mr. Underwood's office, looking over the books brought
in for his inspection, when she entered, alone and unannounced.

She seated herself in the chair indicated by Mr. Britton and proceeded
at once to the object of her visit.

"Señor, you told me when I last saw you that my secret would one day
come out. You were right; it has. It is my secret no longer and José
Martinez fears me no longer. You have been kind to me. You saved his
life once; you fed me when I was hungry and asked no return. I will show
you I do not forget. Señor, there is twenty-five thousand dollars reward
for that man. The officers will never find him; but I will take you to
him, the reward is then yours, and justice overtakes José Martinez, as
you said it would. Do you accept?"

"Do you know where he is?" Mr. Britton queried, somewhat surprised by
the woman's proposition.

"Yes, Señor; I have just come from there."

"He is in the Pocket, is he not?"

"Yes, Señor, but neither you nor your men could find the Pocket without
a guide. I know it well; I have lived there."

"What is your proposition?" Mr. Britton inquired, after a brief silence;
"how do you propose to do this?"

"I will start to-morrow for the Pocket. You come with me and bring the
dogs. I will take you to a cabin where you can stay over night while I
go on alone to the Pocket to see that all is right. I will leave you my
veil for a scent. The next morning you will set the dogs on my trail
and follow them till you come to a certain place I will tell you of.
From there you will see me; I will watch for you and give you the signal
that all is right. The dogs will bring you to the Pocket in half an
hour. The rest will be easy work, Señor, I promise you."

"But isn't the place constantly guarded?"

"Not now, Señor; the men have gone away on another expedition, but José
does not dare go out with them at present. Only one man is there beside
José; I know him well; he will be asleep when you come."

"I shall need men with me to help in bringing him back," said Mr.
Britton.

"Bring them, but I think he will give you little trouble, Señor."

As Mr. Britton cared nothing for the reward himself, he chose five men
to accompany him to whom he thought the money would be particularly
acceptable, and the following morning, with two blood-hounds, they
started forth in three separate detachments to attract as little
attention as possible. The first part of their journey was by rail, the
men taking the same train as the woman herself. On their arrival at the
little station which she had designated, conveyances, for which Mr.
Britton had privately wired a personal friend living in that vicinity,
were waiting to take them to their next stopping-place.

They reached the cabin of which the woman had spoken, late in the
afternoon. Here they picketed their horses and prepared to stay over
night, while she went on to the Pocket. Before leaving she gave Mr.
Britton the lace scarf which she wore about her head.

"I shall not go in there until night," she said; "then I can watch and
find if all is right. You start early to-morrow morning on foot. Set the
dogs on my trail and follow them to the fork; then turn to the left and
follow them till you come to a small tree standing in the trail, on
which I will tie this handkerchief. Straight ahead of you you will see
the entrance to the Pocket. Wait by the tree till you see my signal. If
everything is right I will wave a white signal. If I wave a black
signal, wait till you see the white one, or till I come to you."

Early the next morning Mr. Britton and his men set forth with the hounds
in leash, leaving the horses in charge of their drivers. The dogs took
the scent at once and started up the trail, the men following. They
found it no easy task they had undertaken; the trail was rough and steep
and in many places so narrow they were forced to go in single file. Some
of the men, in order to be prepared for emergencies, were heavily armed,
and progress was necessarily slow, but at last the fork was passed, and
then the time seemed comparatively short ere a small tree confronted
them, a white handkerchief fluttering among its branches.

They paused and drew back the hounds, then looked about them. Less than
ten feet ahead the trail ended. The rocks looked as though they had been
cut in two, the half on which they were standing falling perpendicularly
a distance of some eighty feet, while across a rocky ravine some forty
feet in width, the other half rose, an almost perpendicular wall eighty
or ninety feet in height. In this massive wall of rock there was one
opening visible, resembling a gateway, and while the men speculated as
to what it might be, the woman appeared, waving a white handkerchief,
and they knew it to be the entrance to the Pocket.

"She evidently expects us to come over there," said one of the men, "but
blamed if I can see a trail wide enough for a cat!"

"Send the dogs ahead!" ordered Mr. Britton.

The dogs on taking the scent plunged downward through the brush on one
side, bringing them out into a narrow trail leading down and across the
ravine. Just above, on the other side, they could see the woman watching
their every move.

"I've always heard," said one of the men, "there was no getting into
this place without you had a special invitation, and it looks like it.
Just imagine one of those fellows up there with a gun! Holy Moses! he'd
hold the place against all the men the State, or the United States, for
that matter, could send down here!"

The ascent of the other side was difficult, but the men put forth their
best efforts, and ere they were aware found themselves before the
gateway in the rocks, where the woman still awaited them. She silently
beckoned them to enter.

Emerging from a narrow pass some six feet in length, they found
themselves in a circular basin, about two hundred feet in diameter,
surrounded by perpendicular walls of rock from one hundred to five
hundred feet in height. The bottom of the basin was level as a floor and
covered with a luxuriant growth of grass, while in the centre a small
lake, clear as crystal, reflecting the blue sky which seemed to rise
like a dome from the rocky walls, gleamed like a sapphire in the
sunlight. Sheer and dark the walls rose on all sides, but at one end of
the basin, where the rocks were more rough and jagged, a silver stream
fell in glistening cascades to the bottom, where it disappeared among
the rocks.

For a moment the men, lost in admiration of the scene, forgot that they
were in the den of a notorious band of outlaws, but a second glance
recalled them to the situation, for on all sides of the basin were
caves leading into the walls of rock, and evidently used as dwellings.

To one of these the woman now led the way. At the entrance a man lay on
the ground, his heavy stertorous breathing proclaiming him a victim of
some sleeping potion. The woman regarded him with a smile of amusement.

"I made him sleep, Señor," she said, addressing Mr. Britton, "so he will
not trouble you."

Still leading the way into the farther part of the cave, she came to a
low couch of skins at the foot of which she paused. Pointing to the
figure outlined upon it, she said, calmly,--

"He sleeps also, Señor, but sound; so sound you will need have no fear
of waking him!"

Her words aroused a strange suspicion in Mr. Britton's mind. The light
was so dim he could not see the sleeper, but a lantern, burning low,
hung on the wall above his head. Seizing the lantern, he turned on the
light, holding it so it would strike the face of the sleeper. It was the
face of José Martinez, but the features were drawn and ghastly. He bent
lower, listening for his breath, but no sound came; he laid his hand
upon his heart, but it was still.

Raising himself quickly, he threw the rays of the lantern full upon the
woman standing before him, a small crucifix clasped in her hands. Under
his searching gaze her face grew pale and ghastly as that upon the
couch.

"You have killed him!" he said, slowly, with terrible emphasis.

She made the sign of the cross. "Holy Mother, forgive!" she muttered;
then, though she still quailed beneath his look, she exclaimed, half
defiantly, "I have not wronged you; you have your reward, and justice
has overtaken him, as you said it would!"

"That is not justice," said Mr. Britton, pointing to the couch; "it is
murder, and you are his murderer. You should have let the law take its
course."

"The law!" she laughed, mockingly; "would your law avenge my father's
death, or the wrongs I have suffered? No! My father had no son to avenge
him, I had no brother, but I have avenged him and myself. I have
followed him all these years, waiting till the right time should come,
waiting for this, dreaming of it night and day! I have had my revenge,
and it was sweet! I did not kill him in his sleep, Señor; I wakened him,
just to let him know he was in my power, just to hear him plead for
mercy----"

"Hush!" said Mr. Britton, firmly, for the woman seemed to have gone mad.
"You do not know what you are saying. You must get ready to return with
me."

She grew calm at once and her face lighted with a strange smile.

"I am ready to go with you, Señor," she said, at the same time clasping
the crucifix suddenly to her breast.

With the last word she fell to the ground and a slight tremor shook her
frame for an instant. Quickly Mr. Britton lifted her and bore her to the
light, but life was already extinct. Within her clasped hands,
underneath the crucifix, they found the little poisoned stiletto.




_Chapter XXXIX_

AT THE TIME APPOINTED


For a year and a half Darrell worked uninterruptedly at Ophir, his
constantly increasing commissions from eastern States testifying to his
marked ability as a mining expert.

Notwithstanding the incessant demands upon his time, he still adhered to
his old rule, reserving a few hours out of each twenty-four, which he
devoted to scientific or literary study, as his mood impelled. He soon
found himself again drawn irresistibly towards the story begun during
his stay at the Hermitage, but temporarily laid aside on his return
east. He carefully reviewed the synopsis, which he had written in
detail, and as he did, he felt himself entering into the spirit of the
story till it seemed once more part of his own existence. He revised the
work already done, eliminating, adding, making the outlines clearer,
more defined; then, with steady, unfaltering hand, carried the work
forward to completion.

Eighteen months after his re-establishment at Ophir he was commissioned
to go to Alaska to examine certain mining properties in a deal involving
over a million dollars, and, anxious to be on the ground as early as
possible, he took the first boat north that season. His story was
published on the eve of his departure. He received a few copies, which
he regarded with a half-fond, half-whimsical air. One he sent to Kate
Underwood, having first written his initials on the fly-leaf underneath
the brief petition, "Be merciful." He then went his way, his time and
attention wholly occupied by his work, with little thought as to whether
the newly launched craft was destined to ride the waves of popularity or
be engulfed beneath the waters of oblivion.

Months of constant travel, of hard work and rough fare, followed. His
report on the mines was satisfactory, the deal was consummated, and he
received a handsome percentage, but not content with this, determined to
familiarize himself with the general situation in that country and the
conditions obtaining, he pushed on into the interior, pursuing his
explorations till the return of the cold season. Touching at British
Columbia on his way home and finding tempting inducements there in the
way of mining properties, he stopped to investigate, and remained during
the winter and spring months.

It was therefore not until the following June that he found himself
really homeward bound and once more within the mountain ranges guarding
the approach to the busy little town of Ophir.

He had been gone considerably over a year; he had accumulated a vast
amount of information invaluable for future work along his line, and he
had succeeded financially beyond his anticipations. Occasionally during
his absence, in papers picked up here and there, he had seen favorable
mention of his story, from which he inferred that his first venture in
the realms of fiction had not been quite a failure, and in this opinion
he was confirmed by a letter just received from his publishers, which
had followed him for months. But all thought of these things was for the
time forgotten in an almost boyish delight that he was at last on his
way home.

As he came within sight of the familiar ranges his thoughts reverted
again and again to Kate Underwood. His whole soul seemed to cry out for
her with a sudden, insatiable longing. His mail had of necessity been
irregular and infrequent; their letters had somehow miscarried, and he
had not heard directly from her for months. Her last letter was from
Germany; she was then still engrossed in her music, but her father's
health was greatly improved and he was beginning to talk of home. His
father's latest letter had stated that the Underwoods would probably
return early in July. And this was June! Darrell felt a twinge of
disappointment. He was now able to remember many incidents in their
acquaintance. He recalled their first meeting at The Pines on that June
day five years ago. How beautiful the old place must look now! But
without Kate's presence the charm would be lost for him. He regretted he
had started homeward quite so soon; the time would not have seemed so
long among the mining camps of the great Northwest as here, where
everything reminded him of her.

The stopping of the train at a health resort far up among the mountains,
a few miles from Ophir, roused Darrell from his revery. With a sigh he
recalled his wandering thoughts and left the car for a walk up and down
the platform. The town, perched saucily on the slopes of a heavily
timbered mountain, looked very attractive in the gathering twilight.
Though early in the season, the hotel and sanitarium seemed well filled,
while numerous pleasure-seekers were promenading the walks leading to
and from the springs which gave the place its popularity.

Darrell felt a sudden, unaccountable desire to remain. Without waiting
to analyze the impulse, as inexplicable as it was irresistible, which
actuated him, he hastened into the sleeper and secured his grip and top
coat. As the train pulled out he stepped into the station and sent a
message to his father at Ophir, stating that he had decided to remain
over a day or two at the Springs and asking him to look after his
baggage on its arrival. He then took a carriage for the hotel. It was
not without some compunctions of conscience that Darrell wired his
father of his decision, and even as he rode swiftly along the winding
streets he wondered what strange fancy possessed him that he should stop
among strangers instead of continuing his journey home. To his father it
would certainly seem unaccountable, as it did now to himself.

Mr. Britton, however, on receiving his son's message, could not restrain
a smile, for only the preceding day he had received a telegram from Kate
Underwood, at the same place, in which she stated that they had started
home earlier than at first intended, and as her father was somewhat
fatigued by their long journey, they had decided to stop for two or
three days' rest at the Springs.

Darrell arrived at the hotel at a late hour for dinner; the dining-room
was therefore nearly deserted when he took his place at the table.
Dinner over, he went out for a stroll, and, glad to be alone with his
thoughts, walked up and down the entire length of the little town. His
mind was constantly on Kate. Again and again he seemed to see her, as he
loved best to recall her, standing on the summit of the "Divide," her
wind-tossed hair blown about her brow, her eyes shining, as she
predicted their reunion and perfect love. Over and over he seemed to
hear her words, and his heart burned with desire for their fulfilment.
He had waited patiently, he had shown what he could achieve, how he
could win, but all achievements, all victories, were worthless without
her love and presence.

The moon was just rising as he returned to the hotel, but it was still
early. His decision was taken; he would go to Ophir by the morning
train, learn Kate's whereabouts from his father, and go to meet her and
accompany her home. He had chosen a path leading through a secluded
portion of the grounds, and as he approached the hotel his attention was
arrested by some one singing. Glancing in the direction whence the song
came, he saw one of the private parlors brightly lighted, the long, low
window open upon the veranda. Something in the song held him entranced,
spell-bound. The voice was incomparably rich, possessing wonderful range
and power of expression, but this alone was not what especially appealed
to him. Through all and underlying all was a quality so strangely,
sweetly familiar, which thrilled his soul to its very depths, whether
with joy or pain he could not have told; it seemed akin to both.

Still held as by a spell, he drew nearer the window, until he heard the
closing words of the refrain,--words which had been ringing with strange
persistency in his mind for the last two or three hours,--

  "Some time, some time, and that will be
  God's own good time for you and me."

His heart leaped wildly. With a bound, swift and noiseless, he was on
the veranda, just as the singer, with tender, lingering emphasis,
repeated the words so low as to be barely audible to Darrell standing
before the open window. But even while he listened he gazed in
astonishment at the singer; could that magnificent woman be his
girl-love? She was superbly formed, splendidly proportioned; the rich,
warm blood glowed in her cheeks, and her hair gleamed in the light like
spun gold. He stood motionless; he would not retreat, he dared not
advance.

As the last words of the song died away, a slight sound caused the
singer to turn, facing him, and their eyes met. That was enough; in that
one glance the memory of his love returned to him like an overwhelming
flood. She was no longer his Dream-Love, but a splendid, living reality,
only more beautiful than his dreams or his imagination had portrayed
her.

He stretched out his arms towards her with the one word, "Kathie!"

She had already risen, a great, unspeakable joy illumining her face, but
at the sound of that name, vibrating with the pent-up emotion, the
concentrated love of all the years of their separation, she came swiftly
forward, her bosom palpitating, her eyes shining with the love called
forth by his cry. He stepped through the low window, within the room. In
an instant his arms were clasped about her, and, holding her close to
his breast, his dark eyes told her more eloquently than words of his
heart's hunger for her, while in her eyes and in the blushes running
riot in her cheeks he read his welcome.

He kissed her hair and brow, with a sort of reverence; then, hearing
voices in the corridor and rooms adjoining, he seized a light wrap from
a chair near by and threw it about her shoulders.

"Come outside, sweetheart," he whispered, and drawing her arm within his
own led her out onto the veranda and down the path along which he had
just come. In the first transport of their joy they were silent, each
almost fearing to break the spell which seemed laid upon them. The moon
had risen, transforming the sombre scene to one of beauty, but to them
Love's radiance had suddenly made the world inexpressibly fair; the very
flowers as they passed breathed perfume like incense in their path, and
the trees whispered benedictions upon them.

Darrell first broke the silence. "I would have been in Ophir to-night,
but some mysterious, irresistible impulse led me to stop here. Did you
weave a spell about me, you sweet sorceress?" he asked, gazing tenderly
into her face.

"I think it must have been some higher influence than mine," she
replied, with sweet gravity, "for I was also under the spell. I supposed
you many miles away, yet, as I sang to-night, it seemed as though you
were close to me, as though if I turned I should see you--just as I
did," she concluded, with a radiant smile. "But how did you find me?"

"How does the night-bird find its mate?" he queried, in low, vibrant
tones; then, as her color deepened, he continued, with passionate
earnestness,--

"I was here, where we are now, my very soul crying out for you, when I
heard your song. It thrilled me; I felt as though waking from a dream,
but I knew my love was near. Down through the years I heard her soul
calling mine; following that call, I found my love, and listening, heard
the very words which my own heart had been repeating over and over to
itself, alone and in the darkness."

Almost unconsciously they had stopped at a turn in the path. Darrell
paused a moment, for tears were trembling on the golden lashes. Drawing
her closer, he whispered,--

"Kathie, do you remember our parting on the 'Divide'?"

"Do you think I ever could forget?" she asked.

"You predicted we would one day stand reunited on the heights of such
love as we had not dreamed of then. I asked you when that day would be;
do you remember your answer?"

"I do."

He continued, in impassioned tones: "Are not the conditions fulfilled,
sweetheart? My love for you then was as a dream, a myth, compared with
that I bring you to-day, and looking in your eyes I need no words to
tell me that your love has broadened and deepened with the years.
Kathie, is not this 'the time appointed'?"

"It must be," she replied; "there could be none other like this!"

Holding her head against his breast and raising her face to his, he
said, "You gave me your heart that day, Kathie, to hold in trust. I have
been faithful to that trust through all these years; do you give it me
now for my very own?"

"Yes," she answered, slowly, with sweet solemnity; "to have and to hold,
forever!"

He sealed the promise with a long, rapturous kiss; but what followed,
the broken, disjointed phrases, the mutual pledges, the tokens of love
given and received, are all among the secrets which the mountains never
told.

As they retraced their steps towards the hotel, Darrell said, "We have
waited long, sweetheart."

"Yes, but the waiting has brought us good of itself," she answered.
"Think of all you have accomplished,--I know better than you think, for
your father has kept me posted,--and better yet, what these years have
fitted you for accomplishing in the future! To me, that was the best
part of your work in your story. It was strong and cleverly told, but
what pleased me most was the evidence that it was but the beginning, the
promise of something better yet to come."

"If only I could persuade all critics to see it through your eyes!"
Darrell replied, with a smile.

"Do you wish to know," she asked, with sudden seriousness, "what will
always remain to me the noblest, most heroic act of your life?"

"Most assuredly I do," he answered, her own gravity checking the
laughing reply which rose to his lips.

"The fight you made and won alone in the mountains the day that you
renounced our love for honor's sake. I can see now that the stand you
took and maintained so nobly formed the turning-point in both our lives.
I did not look at it then as you did. I would have married you then and
there and gone with you to the ends of the earth rather than sacrifice
your love, but you upheld my honor with your own. You fought against
heavy odds, and won, and to me no other victory will compare with it,
since--

     'greater they who on life's battle-field
     With unseen foes and fierce temptations fight.'"

Darrell silently drew her nearer himself, feeling that even in this
foretaste of joy he had received ample compensation for the past.

A few days later there was a quiet wedding at the Springs. The beautiful
church on the mountain-side had been decorated for the occasion, and at
an early hour, while yet the robins were singing their matins, the
little wedding-party gathered about the altar where John Darrell Britton
and Kate Underwood plighted their troth for life. Above the jubilant
bird-songs, above the low, subdued tones of the organ, the words of the
grand old marriage service rang out with impressiveness.

Besides the rector and his wife, there were present only Mr. Underwood,
Mrs. Dean, and Mr. Britton. It had been Kate's wish, with which Darrell
had gladly coincided, thus to be quietly married, surrounded only by
their immediate relatives.

"Let our wedding be a fit consummation of our betrothal," she had said
to him, "without publicity, unhampered by conventionalities, so it will
always seem the sweeter and more sacred."

That evening found them all at The Pines, assembled on the veranda
watching the sunset, the old home seeming wonderfully restful and
peaceful to the returned travellers.

The years which had come and gone since Darrell first came to the Pines
told heaviest on Mr. Underwood. His hair was nearly white and he had
aged in many ways, appearing older than Mr. Britton, who was
considerably his senior; but age had brought its compensations, for the
stern, immobile face had softened and the deep-set eyes glowed with a
kindly, beneficent light. Mr. Britton's hair was well silvered, but his
face bore evidence of the great joy which had come into his life, and as
his eyes rested upon his son he seemed to live anew in that glorious
young life. To Mrs. Dean the years had brought only a few silver threads
in the brown hair and an added serenity to the placid, unfurrowed brow.
Calm and undemonstrative as ever, but with a smile of deep content, she
sat in her accustomed place, her knitting-needles flashing and clicking
with their old-time regularity. Duke, who had been left in Mr. Britton's
care during Darren's absence, occupied his old place on the top stair,
but even his five years of added dignity could not restrain him from
occasional demonstrations of joy at finding himself again at The Pines
and with his beloved master and mistress.

As the twilight began to deepen Kate suggested that they go inside, and
led the way, not to the family sitting-room, but to a spacious room on
the eastern side, a room which had originally been intended as a
library, but never furnished as such. It was beautifully decorated with
palms and flowers, while the fireplace had been filled with light boughs
of spruce and fir.

As they entered the room, Kate, slipping her arm within Mr. Britton's,
led him before the fireplace.

"My dear father," she said, "we have chosen this evening as the one most
appropriate for your formal installation in our family circle and our
home. I say formal because you have really been one of ourselves for
years; you have shared our joys and our sorrows; we have had no secrets
from you; but from this time we want you to take your place in our home,
as you did long ago in our hearts. We have prepared this room for you,
to be your _sanctum sanctorum_, and have placed in it a few little
tokens of our love for you and gratitude to you, which we beg you to
accept as such."

She bent towards the fireplace. "The hearthstone is ever an emblem of
home. In lighting the fires upon this hearthstone, we dedicate it to
your use and christen this 'our father's room.'"

The flames burst upward as she finished speaking, sending a resinous
fragrance into the air and revealing a room fitted with such loving
thought and care that nothing which could add to his comfort had been
omitted. Near the centre of the room stood a desk of solid oak, a gift
from Mr. Underwood; beside it a reclining chair from Mrs. Dean, while on
the wall opposite, occupying nearly a third of that side of the room,
was a superb painting of the Hermitage,--standing out in the firelight
with wonderful realism, perfect in its bold outlines and sombre
coloring,--the united gift of his son and daughter, which Darrell had
ordered executed before his departure for Alaska.

With loving congratulations the rest of the group gathered about Mr.
Britton, who was nearly speechless with emotion. As Mr. Underwood wrung
his hand he exclaimed, with assumed gruffness,--

"Jack, old partner, you thought you'd got a monopoly on that boy of
yours, but I've got in on the deal at last!"

"You haven't got any the best of me, Dave," Mr. Britton retorted,
smiling through his tears, "for I've got a share now in the sweetest
daughter on earth!"

"Yes, papa," Kate laughingly rejoined, "there are three of us Brittons
now; the Underwoods are in the minority."

Which, though a new view of the situation to that gentleman, seemed
eminently satisfactory.

Later, as Kate found Darrell at a window, looking thoughtfully out into
the moonlit night, she asked,--

"Of what are you thinking, John?"

"Of what the years have done for us, Kathie; of how much better fitted
for each other we are now than when we first loved."

"Yes," she whispered, as their eyes met, "'God's own good time' was the
best."
